If I open a Java perspective and then Navigate | Go to | Resource, not all files
are visible only those that are under the java source directory.
If I open a navigator view or perspective, all files are seen.

Should the the goto resource should be the same.

If I open a Java perspective and then Navigate | Go to | Resource, not all files
are visible only those that are under the java source directory.
If I open a navigator view or perspective, all files are seen.

Should the the goto resource should be the same.
No, Goto resource is an action that takes you to a specific resource in either 
the package explorer or the navigator depending on which of these two views 
have the focus when activating the action. Since the package explorer shows 
less resources as the navigator the dialog contains less elements.

Please note that with M5 the package explorer will show simple projects as 
well. So you get almost the same dialog. Only generated class files are missing 
since thay aren't visible in the package explorer either.
Let mee see if read it correctly. The resource navigator should find all things
visible in the package explorer. If this is true, then this is still a bug.

The resource navigator from package explorer sees resources only from the java
source directories. It also sees the .classpath and .project files. But it does
note see anything else. If I have files in the project that I can see from the
package explorer, can't find them in the goto resource.
No the go to resource actions are specific for the Navigator or the package 
explorer. Internally these are two different classes. If you give the resource 
navigator focus and open the go to resource dialog the dialog should show you 
all resources accessable in the Navigator. Analogous if you open the dialog 
with an package explorer in focus you should see all resources accessable 
through the package explorer. 

What puzzles me a little bit is your statement: "The resource navigator from 
package explorer". What do you mean by this ?
Created attachment 3182
Navigate Resource example

I include here an snapshot for my confusion. 
The focus is on the "Package Explorer" and goto: Navigate -> Goto -> Resource.
That is what I mean by "The resource navigator from package explorer".

The list shows only resources under "src/java", but it does not show resources
from the "etc/services" directory (empty.html, sample-request.xml, text.txt). 

If Package Explorer sees them, why Goto Resource does not ?
No I get it. We are changing the implementation for M5 and I will make sure 
that the case is handled properly.
Thanks for your patience.
Thank You
I will take this oportunity to express my gratitude for the whole Eclipse team.
Great job, and thank you for listening to us.
Fixed for build > I20030214.


Navigate Goto Resource does not find certain files



[30191] 