The Search Go button doesn't get turned around in right-to-left mode.  It stays the same as in left-to-right mode, which makes it look strangely disconnected from the search box.

The problem is that the rule responsible for turning it around relies on the presence of a "chromedir" attribute on the toolbarbutton element, but that attribute doesn't exist on that element.

The Search Go button doesn't get turned around in right-to-left mode.  It stays the same as in left-to-right mode, which makes it look strangely disconnected from the search box.

The problem is that the rule responsible for turning it around relies on the presence of a "chromedir" attribute on the toolbarbutton element, but that attribute doesn't exist on that element.
Created attachment 236172
screenshot showing unreversed search button on far left
Created attachment 236178
patch v1: fixes problem

Here's a fix for the problem.  Note that this is branch only.  Trunk doesn't even have an rtl version of this icon, although we'll need this fix there when we land the new theme on the trunk.
Comment on attachment 236178
patch v1: fixes problem

Notes for drivers considering this approval request:

This trivial, low-risk fix makes Firefox display the right-to-left search button in right-to-left mode.  Currently Firefox is displaying the left-to-right button in both modes, which looks funky in right-to-left mode (see the attached screenshot).

This patch is branch-only, since the theme on the trunk doesn't have a separate rtl search button.  But we'll need to land this fix on the trunk as well when we land the new theme there later.
*** Bug 350862 has been marked as a duplicate of this bug. ***
Per mconnor, I'll land this on trunk as well, resolving the trivial conflict, so this bug doesn't regress when mconnor lands the new theme on the trunk.
Fix checked in to trunk and 1.8 branch.
Mass-assigning the new rtl keyword to RTL-related (see bug 349193).


Search Go button doesn't get turned around in rtl mode

fixed1.8.1, rtl