Goto Project->Properties->Java Build Path->Libraries for a java project
Click Add Variable
Click Configure Variables to add a new variable
Click Ok to get back to the "New Variable Classpath Entry"

The "Ok" button in this window is disabled. The only way out of this window is to click "cancel" (which does not cancel the creation of a new variable :) or close the window by clicking the aqua closebutton in the upper left corner of the window 

I'm on MacOS X 10.4.6 with java 1.5.0_06-112

Goto Project->Properties->Java Build Path->Libraries for a java project
Click Add Variable
Click Configure Variables to add a new variable
Click Ok to get back to the "New Variable Classpath Entry"

The "Ok" button in this window is disabled. The only way out of this window is to click "cancel" (which does not cancel the creation of a new variable :) or close the window by clicking the aqua closebutton in the upper left corner of the window 

I'm on MacOS X 10.4.6 with java 1.5.0_06-112
Moving to JDT UI
This works for me in 3.2

Are you sure that there is no error message showing in the 'New Variable Classpath Entry' dialog? Ok is only enabled for variables that point to an existing JAR (not a folder)
setting to remind until more information provided
Sorry for not getting back to you on this issue earlier!

There is no error message showing in the 'New Variable Classpath Entry' dialog.

What you say about that the Ok button is only enabled for variables that point to an
existing JAR seems to describe the situation I'm seeing. So in that sense this is not a bug.

But, is it good GUI design to make the user press cancel or press the close-button for the window to get out of a dialog when f.x no variable is selected or a variable pointing to a folder is selected? 

Would it be a Good Thing with another way out of this diaog when not a variable pointing to a jar is selcted?

Just an idea ;-)

-Kaj :)

The dialog is a selection dialog and has to result in a selection on ok. Can't change that but I made the following improvements:
- initial selection set when dialog shows up
- after 'configure' selection is set to (first) new element
- on configure, select the current selection also in the preference dialog

> 20060704
fixed


[build path] "Ok" button in "New Variable Classpath Entry" window is disabled



148635 [build path] "Ok" button in "New Variable Classpath Entry" window is disabled 