If I want to mark Unused Imports as errors in my files, I should be able to do so without preventing that CU from being compiled successfully. My desire is to see a Red X in the decorators for Tasks View, Synchronize View, etc., not to prevent the file from compiling.

Some teams allow warnings to be present in their files. For example, a reference to a deprecated class cannot be hidden without compiling with Java 5. In this use case, there are more severe levels of hygiene errors that should be displayed as red X's, but should not cause compile problems that prevent running and hot-swapping.

If I want to mark Unused Imports as errors in my files, I should be able to do so without preventing that CU from being compiled successfully. My desire is to see a Red X in the decorators for Tasks View, Synchronize View, etc., not to prevent the file from compiling.

Some teams allow warnings to be present in their files. For example, a reference to a deprecated class cannot be hidden without compiling with Java 5. In this use case, there are more severe levels of hygiene errors that should be displayed as red X's, but should not cause compile problems that prevent running and hot-swapping.
Looks like a dup of bug 107282.
Did you unchecked the preference in Preferences>Java>Compiler>Building>General:
Treat configurable errors like fatal errors .... ?
If yes, this is a bug. If not, then do it and it should work as expected.
Closing as dup of 107282.
Please reopen if the preference is unchecked.

*** This bug has been marked as a duplicate of bug 107282 ***
Did not know about that option. Thanks. Is the consensus that true is the right default value?

Also, if that checkbox applies only to the other page (Errors/Warning), why not move it to that page?
(In reply to comment #2)
> Did not know about that option. Thanks. Is the consensus that true is the right
> default value?
I doubt that the default value will be changed. This preserved the previous behavior.
 
> Also, if that checkbox applies only to the other page (Errors/Warning), why not
> move it to that page?
This would be a UI issue. Please open a bug against JDT/UI, but since this is in since 3.2, not sure if this will be changed.

I suppose there's no way to set a default value for existing vs. new workspaces :-(

At the very least, when the user first upgrades to error severity, a prompt should suggest checking out the other setting on the other preference page.
NEW DESCRIPTION:

DCR-
The 3.2 preference mentioned in comment 1 should be moved to the preference page which it affects. Or, the user should be prompted when upgrading configurable options to "error" level. This new setting is great! but will go unnoticed, the same way that "Always run in background" goes unnoticed on the General preference page.
I agree that it wopuld be good to have the default value to be 'false'. But this setting has already been the in the focus of heated discussions and jdt.core decided to not change this.
fixed > 20061218

'Treat errors as...' option is now on the Error/Warning page


[preferences] Make configurable errors non-fatal preference option more prominent



168104 [preferences] Make configurable errors non-fatal preference option more prominent 