I used j2ee.jar in a project, and while the javadoc folder is validated
(index.html and package list), the tooltips do not show the javadoc info, and
the jar icon does not have the "books" on it, like other documented jar I
sucessfully have configured.

No message in error log. Eclipse 3.0 i20030806, but existed in previous versions
too. I already have javadoc on the rt.jar, but not on the servlet nor ejb, which
I only import from j2ee.jar

I used j2ee.jar in a project, and while the javadoc folder is validated
(index.html and package list), the tooltips do not show the javadoc info, and
the jar icon does not have the "books" on it, like other documented jar I
sucessfully have configured.

No message in error log. Eclipse 3.0 i20030806, but existed in previous versions
too. I already have javadoc on the rt.jar, but not on the servlet nor ejb, which
I only import from j2ee.jar
Move to JDT/UI
Martin, can you please comment on this.
The Javadoc shown in tooltips is extracted from the attached source. So what you
have to fo is to attach source to j2ee.jar.

The external javadoc is only shown on 'Open external javadoc (Shift F2)'.

ok to close?

But why is it based on source?!!!
Isn't that's useless in most API and libraries like commercial products?

Please base the tooltips on the javadoc, not the source.
There are two reasons:
- The source is mostly more up to date than the generated Javadoc. This might
not make a difference for JAR's but having the source attached to JAR's is very
helpful for debugging as well.
- Extracting documentation from the generated HTML is not trivial as this
requires guessing about how the HTML was generated. 

However I agree that for non open sourece libraries it would be nice to have
that feature. I think there are already feature requests for that in bugzilla.
fyi: the source for j2ee is not available and we cannot attach more than one
source to a jar (like servlet api and ejb api).

Yes, javadoc parsing is a must.

Note that there is a extension point for hovers, so an external plugin could
provide this functionality.
set to later
In other words, set to forget-me?
Keep open please. It doesn't cost much.
Many other bugs have been opened for more than a year.
Imagine if you resolve this one to later... it will never be fixed.

Should have been done long ago, when javadoc tooltip appeared.

Please do not reopen bugs. Please understand that we have to prioritize bug and
feture requests. I have an inbox which is not maintainable anymore if it gets
too big.
I'm browsing the LATER bugs in regular fashion, be assured.

I set keywords to 'helpwanted' to signal that this bug would be a nice project
for an external contributor. What about you?! :-)


I am able to, with Eclipse 3.2.1, attach external javadocs to a jar and cause eclipse to correctly display the tooltips by doing the following:
- In Package Explorer, open the properties for the project
- Select "Java Build Path"
- Find the jar and show the options by expanding the tree node
- Double-click "Javadoc Location" and enter the location

It seems to me this bug should be totally closed.
Reopen
You're right, this got added in 3.2


valid javadoc (verified from dialog) not binded to jar [javadoc]

helpwanted

Fixed Bug 416107 - Applying new error message to JLS8 tests 

Fixed Bug 416107 - Incomplete error message for member interface and annotation 

FIx for bug 416106 - I build failure - testPackageFragmentRootNonJavaResources3 

Fixed Bug 416107 - Incomplete error message for member interface and annotation 

FIx for bug 416106 - I build failure - testPackageFragmentRootNonJavaResources3 