Using 3.0 RC3.

I was looking at bug 61437 and trying to reproduce it and I realized that now we
do not find any reference for Random class in rt.jar...

Seem to be a regression as it works with 2.1.3 but not since M9.

Using 3.0 RC3.

I was looking at bug 61437 and trying to reproduce it and I realized that now we
do not find any reference for Random class in rt.jar...

Seem to be a regression as it works with 2.1.3 but not since M9.
Note: there's a new checkbox in the Java Search View in the 'Limit To' group,
which reads 'Search the JRE system libraries' and is unchecked by default.

Check it and matches in libs are there ;-)
You're right. I took me a little while to find it but after having selected it,
it works perfectly...
Thanks Markus :)

Reopen to move to jdt/ui...
Using RC2.

Historically I opened the bug against JDT/Core and with a complete different
summary as I thought JDT/Core was not able to find class references inside rt.jar.

Markus pointed that there was now a preferences for this kind of search and I
needed to check "Search the JRE System Libraries" box in order to see possible
match inside rt.jar...

It works fine but although this preferences seems to have a local impact (it is
defined in search dialog), it works as a global preferences. If I modify it,
close the dialog and launch the search from a contextual menu, then the new
option value is taken into account...

More annoying, it remembers the change I've done on this option even if I cancel
the dialog. This is clearly not a standard behavior...

So I think that this preference should be accessible in
Preferences->Workspace->Search page and only there...

I'm also not really convinced that default value (do not search in JRE Systeme
Libraries) is really a good thing... I'd rather prefer either that this value
was set by default or a dialog which warns me that it is not set and ask me to
confirm (and remember my decision...)
Ooops... of course, read "RC3" instead of "RC2" in previous comment...
Not critical for 3.0.
When you select an element in the Outline and search for references, you never see the Search dialog. 

This should be a preference, or better this should detect that the selected element is in a JRE System Library, and always search in the JRE System libraries in this case.
Agree. The context menu actions should use a detected value, as Jerome suggested in comment 7, not the last setting used in the search dialog.
Problem with a preference page setting is that we currently have no preference page for Java Search and want to try to keep it that way.
Fixed in HEAD. The value is now detected: It is enabled only if the element itself is in the JRE.

I also updated the label in the search view to show if the JRE was searched or not.


[java search] "Search the JRE System Libraries" looks like a local preference but behaves as a global one... [search]



68011 [java search] "Search the JRE System Libraries" looks like a local preference but behaves as a global one... [search] + better search description labels, simplified actions 