Created attachment 496879
screenshot comparing mockup to latest nightly

The border around the content area that separates the Window frame from the web-page, implemented in bug 588764, is too light.

Created attachment 496879
screenshot comparing mockup to latest nightly

The border around the content area that separates the Window frame from the web-page, implemented in bug 588764, is too light.
this is a polish item, but it's also a top-level window problem that the overwhelming majority of our users will see with a presumably safe fix to be had so I'm nominating for blocking the release.
I agree this should block.  Really detracts from the browsers look and on white backgrounds (of which there are a lot) the light gray creates a blurred and unfocused border appearance (which looks quite ugly).

Should be simple to change the color
Not going to hold the release for this polish bug. The simplicity of the fix is not a determining factor in the deciding whether to hold the whole release back.

Would absolutely take a fix on approval.
I understand not factoring simplicity but this is a fairly important visual issue in my opinion.  Its close enough to white to make the client area border quite blurry with a white background and everyone (with aero glass) is going to see this.  I personally find it visually distracting and my eyes find it uncomfortable to look at.

Also, considering how important the theme has been to the 4.0 release, it looks visually poor, like the navigation bar is just stuck above the client area.  If the border blocked, I think this should.  Looks worse then before we had the border (and definitely doesn't match the mockups, though this in itself isn't a reason to block).

Anyways, just voicing my 2 cents.  Admittedly I'm fairly picky about visual details.
It also looks bad on websites that highly contrast with the content border because it highlights the difference in color between the toolbar border and the content border. Take the Mozilla prerelease webpage as an example. http://www.mozilla.org/projects/firefox/prerelease.html
http://hg.mozilla.org/mozilla-central/rev/d37e24f10e8d
Created attachment 499585
screenshot

I don't see how this is fixed. The border around the page is still lighter comparing to the border around the toolbar/tab area.

Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT 6.1; WOW64; rv:2.0b9pre) Gecko/20101223 Firefox/4.0b9pre
I agree this isn't quite fixed, though its certainly a lot better than before.

Maybe there are reasons this is complicated to fix?  I'd certainly say its shippable now but does look a little funny.  But if its really difficult to change, it probably isn't worth it.

The border still doesn't look great against a good deal of background colors but I've no idea what to suggest to fix it.
(In reply to comment #7)
> Created attachment 499585 [details]
> screenshot
> 
> I don't see how this is fixed. The border around the page is still lighter
> comparing to the border around the toolbar/tab area.

The border around the toolbar area isn't correct. Matching it should not be the goal here. Getting the border around content correct is the goal.


content area border color implemented in bug 588764 is incorrect - too light

polish