In order to maximize the visibility of longer URLs in the status panel on various window sizes, we should set a minimum width that is a character length but let the max width flow out to a percentage value. That way no small window users will get a horribly short statuspanel bug giant window users will get the benefits of more of the URL displayed.

In order to maximize the visibility of longer URLs in the status panel on various window sizes, we should set a minimum width that is a character length but let the max width flow out to a percentage value. That way no small window users will get a horribly short statuspanel bug giant window users will get the benefits of more of the URL displayed.
Created attachment 511362
patch

Uses 23em except for small windows (<=800px wide), where we need to make sure not to exceed 50%.
http://hg.mozilla.org/mozilla-central/rev/b608e4660fdb
Did this patch not make it into beta 12?  Because in beta 12 I'm seeing horrible reflow effects when hovering over long links -- my window size increases to accommodate the long URL preview.  Sometimes it does a weird jerky thing where it flips several times per second between normal width and extra-wide width.  

images.google.com in particular is awful to use in beta 12, because all the pictures have long links;  every time I move the mouse over a new image the entire page reflows (and also seems to reload a lot of the images?), which is slow and jerky and flickery because there are so many images.  Google even made me fill in a couple of captchas because Firefox was sending so many requests that it thought I was a bot.

Anyway, I tried m-c trunk and it's fixed, so that's good!  I just wanted to report the badness that preceded this patch.  I'd be surprised if others haven't been complaining about this in beta 12.
I don't think the problem you experienced is related to or was fixed by this patch.
WFM on:
Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT 6.1; rv:2.0) Gecko/20100101 Firefox/4.0
FWIW, the problem I saw in comment 3 is gone in RC1.

But the max width of the status bar appears to be 50% of the window width, no matter how big or small I make the window.  50% is kind of low and truncates lots of URLs needlessly;  80% or 90% would be better.
(In reply to comment #6)
> But the max width of the status bar appears to be 50% of the window width, no
> matter how big or small I make the window.  50% is kind of low and truncates
> lots of URLs needlessly;  80% or 90% would be better.

See bug 632634 comment 4.
I believe that about 9/10 of our users are on 1024px wide and above displays and about 2/3 of our users are on 1280px wide and above displays. In all but the worst "normal" case (two windows tiled side by side) I think we've got enough room to show most reasonable URLs without eliding. And I suspect that the people most likely to be in that worst case are on Windows 7 which makes side-by-side through Aero Snap really convenient. Those people are also likely on the newest hardware and so probably the highest resolution screens.

Just my two cents.


statuspanel's minimum width should be an em value and max width should be a percentage value



Bug 632941 - statuspanel's minimum width should be an em value and max width should be a percentage value. r+a=dolske 