"Text Language" property in Element Properties uses two-letter language indicator, which is not translatable.

I'm going to attach the screen-shot.

"Text Language" property in Element Properties uses two-letter language indicator, which is not translatable.

I'm going to attach the screen-shot.
Created attachment 235919
Element Properties [fa-IR]

Shows: "text language: EN (united states)"
[CAPS are English, and smalls are Persian]
I think the actual bug here is that the lang attribute is case sensitive. In an English build the language is shown as "English" for lang="en" and "EN" for lang="EN".
Created attachment 235927
Make the language part of the lang attribute case-insensitive

For some reason the region code has always been case insensitive and the language code not (or maybe language code was assumed to be always lower case and region code always upper case, so it was lowercased to match the properties file).

See RFC 3066 section 2.1:
   All tags are to be treated as case insensitive; there exist
   conventions for capitalization of some of them, but these should not
   be taken to carry meaning.  For instance, [ISO 3166] recommends that
   country codes are capitalized (MN Mongolia), while [ISO 639]
   recommends that language codes are written in lower case (mn
   Mongolian).
Comment on attachment 235927
Make the language part of the lang attribute case-insensitive

Is this likely to be a problem for internal consumers e.g. would EN-gb.dic confuse the spellchecker code?

Note: metadata.js is due to move on trunk, I can't remember when though.
(In reply to comment #4)
> (From update of attachment 235927 [edit])
> Is this likely to be a problem for internal consumers e.g. would EN-gb.dic
> confuse the spellchecker code?

Renaming my existing en-US.dic to EN-us.dic doesn't seem to bother the spellchecker.

I did notice that hreflang="EN" confuses the links toolbar, if anyone cares.
Comment on attachment 235927
Make the language part of the lang attribute case-insensitive

r=mano
Checked in


Untranslatable string in Element Properties

intl