org.eclipse.jdt.junit's plugin.xml redefines the Search menu (as a workaround
for bug 15670), but the label is not NLSed and misses the mnemonic Se&arch.

This probably causes bug 71710.

org.eclipse.jdt.junit's plugin.xml redefines the Search menu (as a workaround
for bug 15670), but the label is not NLSed and misses the mnemonic Se&arch.

This probably causes bug 71710.
The concrete fix that can be made directly in the Eclipse installation directory
to solve the problem immediately, until there is a new version of Eclipse/junit
with this corrected:

Correct line 230 in plugins\org.eclipse.jdt.junit_3.0.0\plugin.xml from

               label="Search"
to
               label="Se&arch"

and restart Eclipse. This makes both the Se&arch menu and &Source menu work
again (Bug 71710).

*** Bug 71710 has been marked as a duplicate of this bug. ***
Created attachment 14259
Search menu not translated

This bug affects NLS
We should fix this for 3.0.1.
released into 3.0.1 reviewed by Andre
released into 3.1
Erich, you need to work with the translation teams to update the 3.0.1 NL 
fragments for this plug-in.
Erich, at this point we can not contain translating new strings into 9 
languages.  We are only able to contain touch-ups to known bad translations in 
a language, for example, in Hyades there was a case in French where 'Save' was 
mistranslated into 'Delete' (or the other way, but it was bad).  This string 
will have to remain in English until 3.1.  Please install the NL fragments and 
try a couple supported locales to make sure this string shows up in English as 
opposed to not showing up at all.  If it works, we are okay for 3.0.1.

ACK - rolling back the NLS change and only fix the mnemonic problem as 
suggested in comment #1
updating the milestone since the fix doesn't go into 3.0.1

The new string in jdt.junit is not a new word that must be translated from
scratch. The translations for the new "searchMenu.label= Se&arch" in jdt.junit's
plugin.properties could be copied verbatim from the existing translations of the
same property in org.eclipse.search's plugin.properties.

Just my 2 cents in case you don't want to live with this bug in 3.0.1 ...
A workaround is to disable the JUnit action set via Window->Customize 
Perspective. This makes sure that only the menu definition of platform search 
is taken.


Non-NLSed search menu redefinition in jdt.junit

nl

rolling back fix for 72873   Non-NLSed search menu redefinition in jdt.junit 

72873    Non-NLSed search menu redefinition in jdt.junit 

72873  Non-NLSed search menu redefinition in jdt.junit 