As part of UI unificaiton, we probably want favicon for all about pages.
about:about lists all the about pages
Mark this bug as a breakdown since there's so many pages

As part of UI unificaiton, we probably want favicon for all about pages.
about:about lists all the about pages
Mark this bug as a breakdown since there's so many pages
Also - can we put something other than "about:thing" in the url bar? maybe a page title instead?
Some possible implementation details were discussed by Unfocused and I during the new network error page review.

https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=982347#c18
https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=982347#c25
Created attachment 8469297
Proposed rules for favicons on about: pages

Attached is a document outlining the rules for favicons on about: pages. Included are some additional rule for about:pages in general. They are:

Rule #1: All about: pages must have a favicon
Rule #2: If a page has an existing icon, that should be the favicon
Rule #3: All about: pages must have a page title
Rule #4: All about: pages must use an identity block
It would be nice to have new favicons for some of these pages.
Looks good! Good catches with the page titles and identity blocks.
I agree with Guillaume that some of the favicons we currently use should get a makeover so that they fit into the visual language used for the icons of about:preferences and customization mode.
This bug seems to be a good place to collect those.

The yet-to-be-designed icons (page 5 of your document) should obviously also follow that style (but that's a different bug)
Thanks :phlsa and :g3k0s. I'll add some details regarding refreshing the icons.
While the title of this bug only covers favicons, your PDF suggests three changes: favicons, page titles and identity block. So I suggest to split this issue into several parts and let this one act as meta-bug.

My points regarding the document:

Rule #3 (All about: pages must have a page title)
--------------------------------------------------
The titles should be translated, user friendly and not all need the word 'About' in them. Also you missed a few. So my suggestion would be:

about: » 'About Firefox/Aurora/Nightly'
about:buildconfig » 'Build config'
about:cache (untranslated)
about:config » 'Config' or better 'Configuration' or 'Preferences'
about:credits (untranslated)
about:license » 'Licenses'
about:memory » 'Memory usage'
about:mozilla (untranslated)
about:plugins » Change to 'Plugins' or 'Installed Plugins'
about:privatebrowsing » Change to 'Start private browsing'
about:rights » 'About your rights'
about:sync-log » 'Sync protocol'
about:webrtc » 'WebRTC internals' (untranslated)


Rule #4: All about: pages must use an identity block:
--------------------------------------------------
You should mention that about:newtab doesn't need the identity block like you did for the icon.


Points beyond the document:

Related to the document:
--------------------------------------------------
- Replace the icon of about:sync-log. It's not recognizable.
- Is about:logo actually used/needed? If yes, it should be mentioned that it's just an image and therefore hasn't title, icon or identity block.

:about pages needing a UI update:
--------------------------------------------------
There are many about: pages, which don't match the new layout and color scheme used within about:preferences, about:app-manager, about:accounts and the Mozilla Style Guide[1]. This results in an inconsistent look and feel. Also some about: pages need to be made more user-friendly like e.g. about:networking, about:plugins or about:support.

about:
about:about
about:addons
about:buildconfig
about:cache
about:config
about:crashes
about:credits (should be integrated, not redirect to https://www.mozilla.org/credits/)
about:downloads
about:license
about:memory
about:networking
about:permissions
about:plugins
about:privatebrowsing
about:rights
about:robots
about:sessionrestore
about:support
about:sync-log
about:sync-progress
about:sync-tabs
about:telemetry
about:webrtc
about:welcomeback

Sebastian

[1] https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/styleguide/identity/firefox/color/
Created attachment 8470068
Updated presentation on Favicons in about: pages

Changes to doc:

Slide 6 - Updated titles (Thanks Sebastian!)
Slide 8 - New rule: All favicons should look like they're from the same family
Slide 9 - Additional notes (Again, thanks Sebastian...re: about:logo and visual updates to about: page contents [which will be another bug(s)])
Sebastian(In reply to Sebastian Zartner from comment #7)
> You should mention that about:newtab doesn't need the identity block like
> you did for the icon.

After talking with some team members, we believe the identity block should remain on the New Tab page. It will vanish when a user clicks in the URL Bar so it is not invasive, but it makes sense to keep it in there so users know this is an official Firefox page, especially now that we have sponsored tiles on newtab.
(In reply to Sevaan Franks [:sevaan] from comment #8)
> re: about:logo and visual updates to about: page contents [which will be another bug(s)])

I can create those and maybe try myself on mockups for them, if you want to. (Would take a bit, though, as I'm busy with other things at the moment.)

(In reply to Sevaan Franks [:sevaan] from comment #9)
> Sebastian(In reply to Sebastian Zartner from comment #7)
> > You should mention that about:newtab doesn't need the identity block like
> > you did for the icon.
> 
> After talking with some team members, we believe the identity block should
> remain on the New Tab page. It will vanish when a user clicks in the URL Bar
> so it is not invasive, but it makes sense to keep it in there so users know
> this is an official Firefox page, especially now that we have sponsored
> tiles on newtab.
Sounds logical to me.

Sebastian
Comment on attachment 8470068
Updated presentation on Favicons in about: pages

Excellent! Sevaan, could you file the follow-up bugs for this?
Bugs created:

Bug 1051844 - Use browser logo as favicon for about: pages that do not have a favicon
Bug 1051846 - Add page title to about: pages that do not have a title
Bug 1051847 - Add identity block to about: pages that do not have an identity block
Bug 1051848 - Create custom favicons for about: pages that have existing icons
Bug 1051851 - Update custom about: page favicons
Forwarding to GMC for verification of the breakdown.


[UX] Breakdown: Favicons for all about pages

