This is bug is basically to revert the fuzzy code from bug 331118 back to
strictly checking the list of shipped plugins.

I'd like to be able to pick up plugins from the en-US directory, too, so that
we only have to maintain one google plugin.
I want to look at creating the yahoo search plugins by preprocessing, too.

This is bug is basically to revert the fuzzy code from bug 331118 back to
strictly checking the list of shipped plugins.

I'd like to be able to pick up plugins from the en-US directory, too, so that
we only have to maintain one google plugin.
I want to look at creating the yahoo search plugins by preprocessing, too.
Created attachment 224112
use vpath to pick only xml files for search plugins, from en-US or locale dir

As one google plugin suffices, I made the logic pick up search plugins from the
en-US directory before the locale dir. That way, we only have to maintain that 
once.
If other plugins are heavily shared, we may want to do the same for them.
Yahoo is not one of them for now, though.
There is one problem with using the en-US Google plugin for all locales - the <SearchForm> tag is set to http://www.google.com/firefox , while e.g. I'd like to have http://www.google.pl/firefox in Polish Firefox. 

These /firefox pages don't use the whole IP sniffing voodoo that is used by the main http://www.google.com/ page.

(The SearchForm tag specifies the page opened when user uses Tools > Web search, but has the search bar hidden).
I don't think that's necessary. As we currently don't do any of the official
flag stuff for the search plugins (bug 335460), that may very well change.
The german plugin in 1.5.0.4 for example gets 
client=firefox-a&rls=org.mozilla:de:official added, which actually triggers the
language to be ok. And I would expect those params to be added to the searchform
query, too. Gavin?
Comment on attachment 224112
use vpath to pick only xml files for search plugins, from en-US or locale dir

That's pretty cool, I didn't know about the vpath directive.
Checked in on trunk and 1.8 branch.


stop shipping sherlock plugins

fixed1.8.1

bug 339783. XPTC_InvokeByIndex crashes when cross-compiled under GCC 3.4.x with EABI (CodeSourcery).  ARM only. patch from blassey, r=bsmedberg, a=beltzner. 