The Comment and Copy actions share the same mnemonic in the package view's context menu.

NOTES:

The Comment and Copy actions share the same mnemonic in the package view's context menu.

NOTES:
where does the Comment action show up in the packages view?


Sorry, I meant the Java editor.

There's also a duplicate for A between &Add and Select &All.

duplicates in menus do no harm, the user can press a letter multiple times and 
will still get to the action.
Yes, this works.  However, for the second occurrence, it changes it from 2 
keypresses (menu key + mnemonic) to 4 for (menu key, mnemonic, mnemonic, Enter).
Also, the platform UI guidelines recommend against duplicates.


agreed on the 4 key strokes, but I don't see how we can enforce uniqueness in 
the general case. Consider editor or view menu contributions from plugins.

>the platform UI guidelines recommend against duplicates
where can I see these guidelines?
We can't guarantee uniqueness in general.  If two plugins contribute to the 
same menu, and there is no dependency between them, they have no way of 
predicting conflicts.

However, we can (and I believe we should) strive to avoid conflicts within the 
plugin itself, and with any prerequisite plugins.

If the problem is that it's hard to come up with decent mnemonics because the 
menu is getting too long, we should consider reorganizing it.
I'm open to any suggested reorganization of the Navigator menu if you want to 
make corresponding changes to the Packages view.
I believe we discussed this briefly when you were here.

Yes I think we have a menu organization issue. I'd like to get feedback from a 
Usability person on what is the best approach. Questions:
- do you show disabled menus
- is the context menu stable
- do we provide use VA/Style fad menus
- is it OK to have submenus in context menus
Kevin, can we get the TO usability lab to address these general usability 
questions?
still an issue in 20020214
(comment and copy are ok now but
'Add', 'Select All' share a mnemonic
'Undo' - 'Uncomment'
'Paste' - 'Show in Packages View'
'comment' - 'add import')

and 
'surround with try/catch' misses a mnemonic

Will partially be resoved with the new Java Editor context menu proposal. (E.g. 
uncomment and undo.) However, when having large menus, it is common that 
multiple menu entries use the same mnemonics. In this case, the system offers 
the interaction that repeated use of the mnemonics character toggles between 
the entries. Therefore, the design goal can only be to reduce overlapping 
mnemonics to menu items which are more rarely be used then others.

Close PR as it's part of menu reorg issue which is pursued. 


Packages view: Comment mnemonic same as for Copy (1GLCAXS)



Bug 432223 - [1.8][null] Java 1.8 null annotations cause 'Contradictory null annotations' error 

Bug 432284: [1.8] Javadoc-8-style anchors not found by IMethod#getAttachedJavadoc(..) 

Update for 14322 

Fix for 14322 

bug 43226 - Deadlock using 0916 

bug 43226 - Deadlock using 0916 

Bug 294322: [jar exporter] Runnable JAR Export - problem with special characters in included JAR-in-JAR filenames 

54322: Change Method Signature dialog; margin and font problems 

54322: Change Method Signature dialog; margin and font problems 

fixes bug 43228: Encoding Support for Java editor broken 