If a user had already added any of the search plugins, eBay, Yahoo, Amazon, and
Dictionary.com, which were just added as the defaults (bug 242586) he will now
have two entries for that plugin. 

This is bad. We have millions of users who may have already customized to add
one or more of these popular plugins and now they'll have a second one in the
search plugin menu that cannot be removed and the bug for giving users UI to
remove plugins, bug 232272, has been minused for 1.0.

If a user had already added any of the search plugins, eBay, Yahoo, Amazon, and
Dictionary.com, which were just added as the defaults (bug 242586) he will now
have two entries for that plugin. 

This is bad. We have millions of users who may have already customized to add
one or more of these popular plugins and now they'll have a second one in the
search plugin menu that cannot be removed and the bug for giving users UI to
remove plugins, bug 232272, has been minused for 1.0.
has this been fixed already?  

I'm unable to replicate this bug on OSX.  Here's what I did:
- installed Amazon plugin
- quit Firefox
- installed 0830 0.9 branch build

I see the list of default plugins.  No duplication.  
I guess it has to do with the name of the .src searchplugins.
Anybody could check that the name and capitalization of the searchplugins we
ship are strictly identical to the ones shipped by sherlock?

Concerning bug 232272, I'll give a try.

->search component
s/by sherlock/by mycroft
Assuming that the searchplugins have been downloaded from mycroft:
     Firefox       | mycroft
-------------------|----------------
Amazon.com.src     | amazondotcom.src
Dictionary.com.src | dictionary.src
Yahoo.src          | yahoo.src
eBay.src           | eBay.src

so, all we have to do to fix this bug without wiping the searchplugins
accumulated by the user is to rename the first three to the mycroft name.
I guess that Asa didn't really see eBay doubled up but did see the other ones.
It would be more logic btw because we already had google.src without the cap.
bart: this bug only happens with an installer, so you won't see it on Mac.
ben is picking this one up.  we may need to clobber all search plugins...
Created attachment 157542
just rename them

+ manual cvs renaming
Comment on attachment 157542
just rename them

I like the renaming solution a lot better. Get a quick r= from someone and land
it :-)
Comment on attachment 157542
just rename them

OK... pierre you can just land this if you want... take the bug or mark it
fixed.
it would be good to get this landed soon.  thanks
I'll land it when I get home.
I cvs logged the following and posted sth similar in the mozillazine build forums:
*BEWARE*: if you have downloaded a branch build after august 25th, and installed
it with the installer, you'll have to manually remove the following files in
your searchplugin directory (otherwise the engines will appear doubled up):
- Amazon.com.png, Amazon.com.src
- Dictionary.com.png, Dictionary.com.src
- Yahoo.gif Yahoo.src
However, transition from 0.9.3 to 1.0PR should be smooth from now.

marking fixed.
see bug 258088


doubled up search plugins

fixed-aviary1.0