there needs to be some way to distinguish between folders that represent dates (today, yesterday, two days ago etc.) and folders that occur under them in the history sidebar (when viewing By Date & Site) so that CSS can style date folders with a calendar icon without also selecting the folders beneath them. there doesn't seem to be any property that occurs on the date folders that doesn't also occur on folders beneath them.

there needs to be some way to distinguish between folders that represent dates (today, yesterday, two days ago etc.) and folders that occur under them in the history sidebar (when viewing By Date & Site) so that CSS can style date folders with a calendar icon without also selecting the folders beneath them. there doesn't seem to be any property that occurs on the date folders that doesn't also occur on folders beneath them.
i suggest adding dayContainer as we have tagContainer

are you going to fix this by yourself? i can do this if you need
since i'm going to fix tag containers icons, i can add dayContainer attribute with that in bug 428648
(In reply to comment #1)
> are you going to fix this by yourself? i can do this if you need

no, feel free, and thanks for asking

(In reply to comment #2)
> since i'm going to fix tag containers icons, i can add dayContainer attribute
> with that in bug 428648

sounds good to me



fixed in bug 428648 use [query][dayContainer]
Bug 451915 - move Firefox/Places bugs to Firefox/Bookmarks and History. Remove all bugspam from this move by filtering for the string "places-to-b-and-h".

In Thunderbird 3.0b, you do that as follows:
Tools | Message Filters
Make sure the correct account is selected. Click "New"
Conditions: Body   contains   places-to-b-and-h
Change the action to "Delete Message".
Select "Manually Run" from the dropdown at the top.
Click OK.

Select the filter in the list, make sure "Inbox" is selected at the bottom, and click "Run Now". This should delete all the bugspam. You can then delete the filter.

Gerv


need tree cell property specific to date folders

