The new icons in the Pinstripe theme use a grayed-out appearance to indicate disabled status.  Standard Mac UI convention, to which native toolbars conform and to which the former Pinstripe theme adhered, is to display the icon in a lightened or less saturated state, but not to gray it out entirely.  Even MacOffice matches the native convention in this regard.  The grayed-out icons feel out of place on the Mac.

The new icons in the Pinstripe theme use a grayed-out appearance to indicate disabled status.  Standard Mac UI convention, to which native toolbars conform and to which the former Pinstripe theme adhered, is to display the icon in a lightened or less saturated state, but not to gray it out entirely.  Even MacOffice matches the native convention in this regard.  The grayed-out icons feel out of place on the Mac.
Yeah, I'd agree here.  Not a high bar to jump.
New icons added to https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=345466, marking this as dependent.
fixed in the updated icon set
The new disabled icons are still very gray, there's still hardly any color saturation and they really don't look anything at all like the disabled toolbar icons of any native application.
Bug 345466 only replaced the icons for the browser window.  The Organize Bookmarks window still has zero-saturation disabled icons.
Created attachment 234175
Toolbar with tinted disabled states

This should have been part of the other patch but might not have got applied correctly.
Is this still [checkin needed], or has it been fixed on the branch?
(In reply to comment #7)
> Is this still [checkin needed], or has it been fixed on the branch?

I don't think there's anything to check in, as comment 4 was never addressed (but still exists... I fear the current set aren't going to be very practical for anyone with poor eyesight (or even background light hitting their monitor).


checked in the last piece.  should be fixed now!


[Mac] Abuse of grey in icons after Pinstripe visual refresh

fixed1.8.1