This change will be required before the upcoming strings freeze. It probably makes sense to do this at the same time that we make the changes to use domplate rather than the template system

This change will be required before the upcoming strings freeze. It probably makes sense to do this at the same time that we make the changes to use domplate rather than the template system
*** Bug 586976 has been marked as a duplicate of this bug. ***
Created attachment 465704
internationalization code

This is the patch that adds localization support to the new Style panel.

Please note that for the number of rules element I removed the whitespace "N rules " and I changes it to "N rules". This change required a minimal update to the csshtmltree style (margin-left for the .toggle span).

If the patch needs further work, please let me know. When the patch is taken into the main Style panel, please mark the bug as fixed.
Please use DTDs as much as possible for xhtml localization?

That'll make it much easier to port things forward for l20n, and it's more in line with what we do in XUL land, and thus easier to track things down.
Axel: The HTML file is entirely generated by the csshtmltree.js script used by the Inspector tool - this is why I used inspector.properties.

We could write the entities in JS, when we generate the DOM nodes. Should I change the code to do that?

For formatted strings I still have to use inspector.properties. Right?

Also, if you believe that I need to switch to the use of DTD entities, do I create a new DTD file or do I use an existing one, browser.dtd maybe?

Thanks for your feedback, Axel!
My comment was mostly about the changes to browser/base/content/csshtmltree.html, though that probably would need to get moved to .xhtml to go through the xml content sink.

What tree is this diff against?
This diff is against the default branch from mozilla-central with three older patches applied from bug 582596.

Joe Walker has updated his patches now to include my internationalization patch. So, you can directly get his patches that apply cleanly on the default branch of mozilla-central.

Looking forward to your comments.
Marking this bug as fixed. Joe has merged this patch into the main patches from bug 582596 a few days ago. Today I have made further improvements to the internationalization code in the updated patches for that bug.


Internationalize the alternate stylesheet rendering system

