It would be nice to have a toolbar button for syncing the packages view with the
currently selected editor (i.e. a button associated with Navigate->Show in
package Explorer)

This would make the packages view UI consistent with the Navigator view's UI.

It would be nice to have a toolbar button for syncing the packages view with the
currently selected editor (i.e. a button associated with Navigate->Show in
package Explorer)

This would make the packages view UI consistent with the Navigator view's UI.
This is planned for M4.
Please can the sync with editor command (Menu item) work on both views 
(Package and Navigator?) Work on both at the same time OR only the one that is 
visible (i don't care about this to much)

Currently i have all kinds of different problems with the following commands:

<1>Show in Navigator
<2>Show in Package Explorer
<3>Sync with editor.

The starting point is always the same.. I have the focus in an editor...
And the Navigator Or package explorer visisble.

With a Java file the 2 shows do work if i have focus in the editor and then 
the the navigator or package will get the focus (what i don't want everytime 
by the way, what is a fast way, without mouse, to go back to the editor??)

One problem is that the 2 shows are completely gone when i select a NON java 
file. This is pretty irritating if you ask me. It would be very nice if those 
2 are always enabled if a package view or navigator view is there in the 
current perspective (visible or not)

The sync that works currently only with the navigator view and when the 
navigor view has focus. The strange thing is that this will not transfer the 
focus to the editor what the other way around does...

But the sync should also work for the package view (for all file types)
And is it not possible to let sync with editor work also work the other way so 
from editor to Navigator or/and Package explorer and then keep the focus on 
the current editor?

So Show xxxx work with all file types and transefs focus from editor to the 
wanted view. And sync (maybe not sync with editor but a sync views command) 
works just as show but will give every view that listen to that action the 
command that it should sync its view with the current selected editor.

The last would be very great because then for example Codepro of 
instantiations can also listen to the Sync view actions and sync there 
improved Package and Navigator view with the editor (currently the normal 
navigator view will be opened if i say: show in navigator)

reworked the Show In support in for 02018


Add Sync with Editor toolbar button in Packages View [package explorer]



Bug 126726 - Show Monitors not working 