Using org.eclipse.jdt.junit version 20031021, I got a failure when I tried to
open a failed test that is named "1.3 - test346". This can happen with the
compiler tests when they run in 1.3 mode. We add "1.3", "1.4" or "1.5" to
distinguish the different compiler compliance mode.
I attach a patch for the opening action that fixes the issue.

Using org.eclipse.jdt.junit version 20031021, I got a failure when I tried to
open a failed test that is named "1.3 - test346". This can happen with the
compiler tests when they run in 1.3 mode. We add "1.3", "1.4" or "1.5" to
distinguish the different compiler compliance mode.
I attach a patch for the opening action that fixes the issue.
Created attachment 6547
Apply on top of version 20031021
The patch assumes that the test name starts with "test". Maybe this is too
strong. You might want to add some information on the test name. And this should
be the name used to open on double click action.
Erich, 

Philippe mentioned that this bug really borthers JDT/Core. Can you please have 
a look at the patch.
I would be nice to have the patch integrated soon. It works really well and it
is annoying each time we take a new build to patch the same plugin.
The patch is a workaround and not a real fix for the problem. We cannot assume 
that the prefix before "test" can be ignored.

fMethodName= method.substring(method.lastIndexOf("test"), method.length());

Options:
1) add the concept of a test description/comment to TestCase. Unfortunately 
this needs to be done inside the JUnit framework and this requires convincing 
the JUnit committers (and these guys are really slooow...)

2) improve the open action so that when a method isn't found, we present the 
user the list of public no-arg methods from the class in a dialog. This avoids 
the error and allows you to pick the method to be opened.

Would 2) be good enough for you?

Of course 1) would be perfect, but 2) is acceptable. As long as I can open the 
method without failing. Right now it is pretty annoying.
fixed - an info message box is now shown that the test method could not be 
found and the test class is opened.


[JUnit] Open failed test failed when test name is "1.3 - test346"



45531  Open failed test failed when test name is "1.3 - ... 