When I run unit tests, and get a failure, JUnit does not select any of the
failures automatically.  This means to get any details, I need to select one by
hand.  Very annoying.  Another user here reports that it does select one for him.

When I run unit tests, and get a failure, JUnit does not select any of the
failures automatically.  This means to get any details, I need to select one by
hand.  Very annoying.  Another user here reports that it does select one for him.
I agree this would be very annoying, but given the information below I cannot 
reproduce the problem.

Which build?
What are the detailed steps to reproduce the problem?

pls reopen once the requested information is provided
Build id: 200406251208 (I think this is 3.0.0 final). 
For me, it is just *always* happening this way.  There are no steps to 
reproduce, except to run a JUnit test that fails, (as far as I can tell).  I 
know of nothing specific that I've done that varies from the way other users 
working with the same code.  Could you perhaps fathom a guess at what might be 
differentiating things?  [ To my knowledge, we're all on the same build, and I 
know we're all running Windows XP.  We may have different "patch versions" of 
JDK 1.4.2 by a patch or two. ] 
can you also reproduce it with the simplest failing test?

public class FailTest extends TestCase {
	public void testFail() {
		fail();
	}
}

After this test is run the failing test is selected in the Failures tab of the 
JUnit view.
Yes. I created a new project.  Added JUnit to the project build path, and that
reproduces the problem.
The failing test isn't selected when the scroll lock mode is active. Can you 
verify whether your scroll lock button is pressed? This is the right most 
button in in the JUnit view's toolbar.
Doh!  That's the problem.  Can we make scroll lock be ignored on the first test
added?
Your scenario shows a problem. They way I've attempted to fix it is to make 
the initial selection independent of the scroll lock. The first-error-
selection now happens when there is no selection in the widget. This should 
cover your scenario.


reopen to mark as fixed
changes released


Junit view doesn't select failure [JUnit]



72547 Junit view doesn't select failure [JUnit] 