Created attachment 8502918
Early mockup

The Hello tour would like to have indicate where to generally perform actions in the UI. We think this can be be simply, by having these indicators in-content (as opposed to, say, chrome arrowpanels). But we'd like to provide some positioning information to help the indicator bubbles point near the right place.

Matt's suggestion is to have an API that returns the size and position (in pixels) of the Hello panel and room view, and content can then use that to adjust where it's pointing. We don't need to report pixel-precise positions of elements within those views, the bubble can just point to the approximate location.

Exact API TBD.

Created attachment 8502918
Early mockup

The Hello tour would like to have indicate where to generally perform actions in the UI. We think this can be be simply, by having these indicators in-content (as opposed to, say, chrome arrowpanels). But we'd like to provide some positioning information to help the indicator bubbles point near the right place.

Matt's suggestion is to have an API that returns the size and position (in pixels) of the Hello panel and room view, and content can then use that to adjust where it's pointing. We don't need to report pixel-precise positions of elements within those views, the bubble can just point to the approximate location.

Exact API TBD.
So far the tour wants to generally point towards:

  * New Room button
  * Email/Copy Link buttons
  * List of active rooms
  * Sign Up (create account)

Note the panel or view may be animated while opening, so we should be careful to report the final size/position and not some intermediate state.
Some possible overlap with bug 1080947 -- the "room view opened" notification could include the view's size and position.
Unfocused thinks this may be a problem on Linux so that needs investigation.
Created attachment 8526869
WIP to use regular UITour panels

I'll morph this bug into an investigation bug later and move this patch to a new bug but for now this is a WIP which implements the tour targets with real info panels. It depends on bug 1080943.

I think this way will end up being better overall and I will comment with more details later.
Try push with both patches: https://tbpl.mozilla.org/?tree=Try&rev=99269e45cb74
Letting the page know about the initial position of panels is possible although handling re-positioning and having the page also deal with RTL will make it slower to develop and will likely lead to more bugs. I have a WIP patch (attachment 8526869) that works with the normal UITour panels and it seems like that approach is feasible.


UITour: Investigate letting the tour page know where Hello panel and room view are positioned

