The index could do with some cleaning up. The History enrtry points to
Navigating Web Pages. The Help Viewer entries lead nowhere. I think we could do
away with the index item for 'Using,' any ideas what should happen to the items
in that section?

The index could do with some cleaning up. The History enrtry points to
Navigating Web Pages. The Help Viewer entries lead nowhere. I think we could do
away with the index item for 'Using,' any ideas what should happen to the items
in that section?
Changing summary to be much more specific. The history link in the index is
fine, only the help viewer links are broken as far as I can find. 
Created attachment 186818
fixes broken links in index to help viewer documents

The text 'Help Viewer' seems to be inconsistent here with the use of 'Help
Window' everywhere else in help. It seems 'Help Viewer' is only referenced
internally otherwise. This would need to be fixed across a few places though I
guess.
Comment on attachment 186818
fixes broken links in index to help viewer documents

Yeah, we should use "Help Window" instead of "Help Viewer". Looks like the
Index is the only place using "Help Viewer". Fix the IDs and the name tags,
please.

>-</rdf:RDF>
>+</rdf:RDF>
>\ No newline at end of file
That's a bad idea. Each file should end with an empty line. Good editors like
JEdit provide an option to hide the last line so you don't delete it
accidentally.
Comment on attachment 186818
fixes broken links in index to help viewer documents

While you're in here, could you change ":" in the ID attributes in the lines
you change to "-"?  Colons are illegal characters in IDs, but Mozilla's RDF
parser sucks that way (as well as in many others, but I digress).  Just change
them in the lines you're already changing - the rest of the lines don't have to
be changed immediately, and this isn't the bug for a big cleanup patch.
Created attachment 187130
fixes broken links in index to help viewer documents

I've taken on board the points of Steffen and Jeff in this version.
I wonder if whilst I'm at it we should patch welcome.xhtml so it always reads
Help Window instead of Help window?
Comment on attachment 187130
fixes broken links in index to help viewer documents

You're getting close, but you missed Jeff's comment on replacing ":" by "-" in
the IDs. Instead of ID="help-window:how-to-use", it should be
ID="help-window-how-to-use".
I'm not sure whether I prefer "Help Window" to "Help window". I'm leaning
towards the current "Help window".
Created attachment 187858
fixes broken links in index to help viewer documents

I think I misunderstood Jeff's comment the first time but here goes again.
Comment on attachment 187858
fixes broken links in index to help viewer documents

r=me, thanks.
Checking in mozilla/browser/locales/en-US/chrome/help/firebird-index1.rdf;
/cvsroot/mozilla/browser/locales/en-US/chrome/help/firebird-index1.rdf,v  <-- 
firebird-index1.rdf
new revision: 1.22; previous revision: 1.21
done


Fix broken links in Index

