App sharing is currently targeted at Firefox 34.

There's ongoing platform implementation work happening in bug 1036653 but it seems we don't have any defined UX for how that should work. The UX redesign that happened in bug 1037162 doesn't seem to include anything about app sharing.

App sharing is currently targeted at Firefox 34.

There's ongoing platform implementation work happening in bug 1036653 but it seems we don't have any defined UX for how that should work. The UX redesign that happened in bug 1037162 doesn't seem to include anything about app sharing.
Created attachment 8475862
Mockup v1

Here's a mockup that builds upon our current design.
I'll also add that capability to the mockups for our improved UI (bug 1037162), but that requires some more thinking.

Florian, do you think this is doable?
You'll notice that I also changed some strings to differentiate the cases further.
Comment on attachment 8475862
Mockup v1

(In reply to Philipp Sackl [:phlsa] from comment #1)

> Here's a mockup that builds upon our current design.

Thanks!

> Florian, do you think this is doable?

I think so, yes.

> You'll notice that I also changed some strings to differentiate the cases
> further.

Some strings are not visible on the mockup, but I assume that all the window-specific strings we had (eg. "Share Selected Window" in the button, or the strings in the global indicator) need to be added for application, and that we are using the same wording with the word "window" replaced by "application".


jesup, is the "(N windows)" string in the list of applications doable?

Also, are we fully sure that mozGetUserMediaDevices will never return in a single call video devices with mixed mediaSource values? The current code supports having both screen and window devices in the same list of results, but if I make changes to follow the mockup attached here, supporting that case won't be possible anymore.
(In reply to Florian Quèze [:florian] [:flo] from comment #2)
> > You'll notice that I also changed some strings to differentiate the cases
> > further.
> 
> Some strings are not visible on the mockup, but I assume that all the
> window-specific strings we had (eg. "Share Selected Window" in the button,
> or the strings in the global indicator) need to be added for application,
> and that we are using the same wording with the word "window" replaced by
> "application".

Exactly. It also pulls apart the »Screen or window« logic we currently use, since AFAIK the page will ask specifically for one or the other.
> jesup, is the "(N windows)" string in the list of applications doable?

Yes, I think so, though it doesn't today - and the value may be out of date (slightly) as it won't track the number of windows live.

> Also, are we fully sure that mozGetUserMediaDevices will never return in a
> single call video devices with mixed mediaSource values? The current code
> supports having both screen and window devices in the same list of results,
> but if I make changes to follow the mockup attached here, supporting that
> case won't be possible anymore.

The design currently is that it will provide the full list of devices of all types that match the constraints in one return to the UI.  If this is problematic, we can revisit it (segregate, etc).
Should this be something we're tracking as a feature for 34, then? Florian, are you using any particular keywords or whiteboard tags to mark bugs that have to do with app sharing?
(In reply to Liz Henry :lizzard from comment #5)
> Should this be something we're tracking as a feature for 34, then? Florian,
> are you using any particular keywords or whiteboard tags to mark bugs that
> have to do with app sharing?

We are planning app sharing as a feature for 34, yes. We are using bug 1053215 as a tracking bug.
Some additional details I discussed with Philipp today:

15:42:15 - flo-retina: […] I'm currently implementing the UI for app sharing, and I'm not sure what I should show when we are currently sharing both a window and an application with a single webpage. Is it better to show "You are sharing a window with this page." or "You are sharing an application with this page."?
15:42:52 - phlsa: Let's do »application« in that case
15:42:55 - flo-retina: In that specific case I'm tempted to say the an application is more than a window, so I should show the "sharing an application" message
15:43:02 - phlsa: :)
15:43:09 - phlsa: For that very reason :)
15:43:18 - flo-retina: but in another case I tend to think differently: the global indicator in the mac menubar.
15:43:29 - flo-retina: If I had one tab using an application and one tab using a window.
15:43:55 - flo-retina: displaying "Sharing Applications with 2 tabs" seems wrong. And "Sharing Windows with 2 tabs" seems correct.
15:44:18 - phlsa: Hm…
15:44:48 - phlsa: Makes sense
15:44:57 - phlsa: Yeah, let's do that
15:45:10 - phlsa: I don't think it's a problem if those two don't say the exact same thing
Since no further objections were raised, I'm marking this as resolved.


UX for app sharing in Fx34

feature