This is the UX-design part of engineering bug 1075055. Copying from there:

Currently FHR and telemetry have completely independent checkboxes in the prefs. For various technical reasons, this is no longer going to be possible: there should only be three possible states:

* FHR+telemetry (default for prerelease channels)
* FHR (default for release channel)
* No data

I don't have an opinion about exactly how the UI should work: we could grey out the telemetry checkbox if FHR is not checked, or we could replace the current setup with a radio or select box. Please decide on the correct setup of that pref panel.

This is the UX-design part of engineering bug 1075055. Copying from there:

Currently FHR and telemetry have completely independent checkboxes in the prefs. For various technical reasons, this is no longer going to be possible: there should only be three possible states:

* FHR+telemetry (default for prerelease channels)
* FHR (default for release channel)
* No data

I don't have an opinion about exactly how the UI should work: we could grey out the telemetry checkbox if FHR is not checked, or we could replace the current setup with a radio or select box. Please decide on the correct setup of that pref panel.
Madhava, we're planning on doing this in the next trains timeframe. Can you suggest someone for the UX design?
Philipp, do you have input here?
I've added the bug to this iteration. 38.1 is a pretty heavy iteration in terms of UX though. In general, I think Michael Maslaney or me would do it. Since this is essentially about renaming and rearranging checkboxes, I assume that it would also be OK to get the UX work done in 38.2, right?
We have to have the engineering done in the 38 cycle, so we're going to be cutting it close, especially if we need to keep supporting both in-content prefs and the pref dialog.
Created attachment 8555887
general direction

Here's a wireframe of the general direction (not a finished comp).
Benjamin, would this address the issue?
I've also played with the copy a little — let me know if you see any issues with that.
What was the previous copy? I'm ok with this, but I'd like to run it by Geoff to make sure that changes to the in-product copy don't require any matching changes in the Firefox privacy notice.
Thanks for filing this Bug and sorry due to high volume work load, I am a bit delayed here. But, would you mind setting up a meeting with me (include Marshall as well), so I can understand what we're doing, the background and the specifics around UI changes.

I take it we are not doing anything at all as far as changes to data and infrastructure but merely how the flags operate to the user?
(In reply to Geoff Piper from comment #7)
> I take it we are not doing anything at all as far as changes to data and
> infrastructure but merely how the flags operate to the user?

comment 0 has some context. 
I'm not sure what you mean by infrastructure, but the behavior here is actually changing - we won't be able to enable FHR & Telemetry independently anymore because both will be handled by the same system.
I see ok, Ben has scheduled a meeting. Let me sync with him and do a more in depth review of this once I have the full background.
Created attachment 8557152
Comparison of new and old treatment

Sure! Here's both next to each other.
Comment on attachment 8557152
Comparison of new and old treatment

I have no more feedback. Geoff will connect with you because we probably need to keep the word "telemetry" in there somewhere because that's what we call the feature and that's what's in the privacy notice.
Ben, thanks for the background and catch up type detail.

Phillip, would you set a meeting together so I can walk through the proposed UI and a few things that we need to discuss and revise just ever so slightly (from a user perspective to inure we don't have a confusing or failure to consent issue)? I am liking where this is headed, just a few slight changes to get it aligned with these concepts.
Created attachment 8560664
FHR-Telemetry-ICP-on.png

FHR on
Created attachment 8560665
FHR-Telemetry-ICP-off.png

FHR off. Telemetry gets unchecked automatically when FHR gets turned off.
Created attachment 8560668
FHR-Telemetry-windowed-prefs.png

Spec for preferences window
That should include everything that came up in my conversations with Benjamin and Geoff.


[UX]  Make it impossible to turn on telemetry unless FHR is also turned on

