- select a java project, open context menu
- run 'Find Strings to Externalize'
- Takes several seconds, UI is frozen -> progress monitor needed

The UI which is coming up is strange: Selecting an entry suddly opens a wizard
This should use the search view to show the results or be implemented as an 
wizard.
There is an error dialog coming up when you select an entry with no strings to 
externalize.

- select a java project, open context menu
- run 'Find Strings to Externalize'
- Takes several seconds, UI is frozen -> progress monitor needed

The UI which is coming up is strange: Selecting an entry suddly opens a wizard
This should use the search view to show the results or be implemented as an 
wizard.
There is an error dialog coming up when you select an entry with no strings to 
externalize.
1. will a busy cursor be enough?
2. the wizard should open on double selection - it's a bug
3. it's not an error dialog - it's simply a message saying that there are 
no strings to externalize
added a busy cursor
and fixed the (double) selection problem

opt to close
3. dialog says: The following error prevents the operationn from performing
i changed that to 'problem'
it's also not a problem. its just nothing. why should I expect an operation 
anyway? I chose 'Find Strings to Externalize'. The maybe should be a 
button 'Externalize' that does the same thing as the double click.

However I still think the UI approach with the dialog is not very lucky. Either 
it's like a wizard, or done in a non-modal way like search. 
double click was implemented as a response to bug#4036
adding a new button is of course possible (or at least adding a label that 
would inform you about the double-click behavior)
added a message informing about the double-click behavior

reopening - will need to improve the wording
*** Bug 10172 has been marked as a duplicate of this bug. ***
renamed the report from: "find strings to externalize: no progress monitor"
(could mark this one as dup of bug#10172 instead, i guess <g>)
fixed


nls: incorrect message when no strings to externalize



HEAD - Fix for 169017 

Fixed bug 99017: Remove the copyright link and the copyright gif 

Fixed bug 99017: Remove the copyright link and the copyright gif 

changed 'error' to 'problem' (see 9017) 

fix for: 9017 (busy cursor and double click) 