I know the Java browsing is still a work in progress, but it was suggested on 
the newgroup that I post issues as they arise, so the don't get missed.

I have configured the browser perspective to add some additional views then 
saved my view.  Everything seems to works with one exception.  I have selected 
to allow three editors to be opened at a time in the preferences.  When I use 
the shipped Java Browser view, I get up to three editors as expected.  In my 
saved copy only one editor continues to be reused.

If it matters, I have added the console and task views to my copy of the 
perspective in a simlar fashion to the Java view.

I know the Java browsing is still a work in progress, but it was suggested on 
the newgroup that I post issues as they arise, so the don't get missed.

I have configured the browser perspective to add some additional views then 
saved my view.  Everything seems to works with one exception.  I have selected 
to allow three editors to be opened at a time in the preferences.  When I use 
the shipped Java Browser view, I get up to three editors as expected.  In my 
saved copy only one editor continues to be reused.

If it matters, I have added the console and task views to my copy of the 
perspective in a simlar fashion to the Java view.
Did you save it under the same name or did you assign a new name? The setting is
only valid for the "Java Browsing" perspective.
I did save it under a new name, so that would be the issue.  What I've done 
since then was to start with the Java perspective, add the views from the 
browser perspective to essentially create the same perspective.  This allows me 
to open more than one editor at a time.  I saved the modified perspective with 
a new name at it works okay.
There are two different preference:
1) For the whole workspace: Workbench -> Preferences -> Number of opened editors
before reusing
2) For the Java Browsing perspective: Workbench -> Java -> Work in Progress ->
Browsing -> Number of opened editors before reusing

If you "save as" a Java Perspective you will get the global setting but if you
clone a Java Browsing perspective you will end up with the specific Java
Browsing setting. I guess that's what happened in your scenario.

I assumed the current behavior to be more useful than resetting the editor
threshold to the global preference. As you noted yourself you can get a
perspective that uses the global setting by cloning a perspective that already
uses the global setting.

Unfortunately you can't change the editor reuse threshold later of a cloned Java
Browsing perspective later.
Ok to close?
I understand the comment you make on the two different types of preferences and 
the differences between the global and browser settings.  The issue I have is 
that when I clone the browser perspective, it doesn't matter what I set the 
browser setting to for opened editors, it only does one.

I hope I'm making sense here...

" it only does one." - You mean only 1 open editor is allowed?

That's exactly the point you have to set the number of editors before saving
your perspective.

- if you clone a Java Browsing perspective you have to set
   Java -> Work In Progress -> Browsing -> Number of opened editors...
- if you clone a Java perspective you have to set
   Workbench -> Number of opened editors...

This scenario works for me (build 20020319)

I apologize for being so dense. Now I get it! Whatever the setting in the 
preference is when I clone then save the perspective.  That's the way it 
stays.  Okay.  That brings up another issue then.  If I want to change the 
setting on the cloned view, it appears that I can't. Perhaps this is how this 
all started to begin with.
From a previous comment:
>Unfortunately you can't change the editor reuse threshold later of a cloned Java
>Browsing perspective later.


Got it. It appears this is "as intended."  Sorry for the hassle. Thanks for the 
help.
No hassle - all feedback improves the product.

No, it is not intended and I agree with you that this is a drawback but the
platform does not store the original (or previous) perspective so that I could
return the editor count from the original Java Browsing perspective.

(Implementation detail: if the value in the perspective is null then the
Workbench's setting is used. Once the value is set - like in the browsing
perspective - this value is used and it is also used to clone a perspective.)

What I could do though is reset the count null and use the platform's value (the
one on the Workbench pref page). But I thought it was more useful to keep/copy
(even though read-only) the value of the Java Browsing perspective.

Your thoughts?
I can see both points - keeping it and retrieving it from the global 
preference.  I suppose I would lean towards getting it from the global 
preference.  It may be a bit easier to explain even though one setting could 
affect several perspectives.  In reality, how many perspectives would you 
expect there to be cloned in this situation?  I would guess that one or two 
would be typical. In my situation I clone (once) and tweak the clone leaving 
the original always as is.  The problem with the read-only case is that if I 
tweak a cloned browser perspective and decide later that I would like to change 
this setting, I'm unable to.  If I want to, I must start over again.

Is it possible to provide a checkbox indicating the method to use?  Something 
like "Use Workbench Preferences in cloned perspectives"  Do you think this 
might make things confusing?

I'm assuming from the discussion here that this is the case for all of the 
preferences for this perspective.

>Is it possible to provide a checkbox indicating the method to use?  Something 
>like "Use Workbench Preferences in cloned perspectives"  Do you think this 
>might make things confusing?
Yes, too confusing - especially because only the Java Browsing pref page would
need this checkbox.


>I'm assuming from the discussion here that this is the case for all of the 
>preferences for this perspective.
Most prefs are for views, editors and actions. AFAIK the editor threshold is the
only user  preference which is defined on the perspective itself. Did you
experience the behavior with other prefs?

I guess I'll remove the option again (Java Debug also reverted back to use the
workbench setting). This will be easier for users to understand. The drawback is
that they can't choose a different number of open editors for Java Browsing
perspective (compared to all other perspectives).

Java Browsing no longer offers to set the number of open editors. The platform
UI has deprecated the corresponding methods and will remove them for final 2.0

Tip: "Reset" your Java Browsing perspective(s) to use the global workbench
editor reuse threshold setting.



Java Browser Open Editors



[100100] SourceAnalzyer#ActivationAnalyzer should normalize bindings to check for recursive calls 