Created attachment 109566
Screen shot of folding turned on when preference is off

Build: 3.5 M1 (I20080807-1402)

Code folding keeps turning itself on in my editors, even though I have the code folding preference turned off. It will be turned on in some classes, but not in others. It appears to happen in classes that were opened from the synchronize view.

 - Open a compare editor by clicking a Java file in the synchronize view
 - Now drag the file out of the sync view to open the same file in a regular Java editor

-> Now code folding is enabled in that Java editor

Created attachment 109566
Screen shot of folding turned on when preference is off

Build: 3.5 M1 (I20080807-1402)

Code folding keeps turning itself on in my editors, even though I have the code folding preference turned off. It will be turned on in some classes, but not in others. It appears to happen in classes that were opened from the synchronize view.

 - Open a compare editor by clicking a Java file in the synchronize view
 - Now drag the file out of the sync view to open the same file in a regular Java editor

-> Now code folding is enabled in that Java editor
I'm sorry but I cannot reproduce this using 3.5. M1. Maybe that's because I'm not 100% sure what you do in 
" - Now drag the file out of the sync view to open the same file in a regular
Java editor
", e.g. where do you drag it exactly?

Are you using Mylyn? If so, I think this might do such things for you.

Please reopen with more detailed steps if you can reproduce on plain Eclipse SDK.
I'm not using Mylyn. I was using plain I20080807-1402 Eclipse SDK build that I had installed fresh that morning. By "drag file out of the sync view" I meant drag a file from the sync view to the editor area. This causes a (non-compare) editor to be opened on that file.

I also can't reproduce it consistently. It's not as simple as just dragging a file out of the sync view to the editor area (sorry if I implied that). I'll try to come up with consistent steps to reproduce it.
>By "drag file out of the sync view" I meant
>drag a file from the sync view to the editor area. This causes a (non-compare)
I tried that.

OK, I found the problem by looking through lately changed code.

Test Case:
1. make sure folding is disabled
2. open a big file
3. format the file (Ctrl+Shift+F)
==> folding gets enabled.

Fixed in HEAD.
Available in builds >= I20080812-0800.
Ah, I have a save participant that performs format on save, so I guess that explains why I saw it so easily.


[projection] Code folding turning itself on

