I should be able to tell search whether it should consider potential matcher or 
not. Often I use search for references as the peer operation to open on 
selection, i.e., e.g., I know there is exactly one caller and I want to jump to 
it.

In addition, potential matches should be presented at the end of the result 
list and not at it's beginning.

I should be able to tell search whether it should consider potential matcher or 
not. Often I use search for references as the peer operation to open on 
selection, i.e., e.g., I know there is exactly one caller and I want to jump to 
it.

In addition, potential matches should be presented at the end of the result 
list and not at it's beginning.
there should be a filter to hide potential matches
Did you see any potential match which is not simply a bug of the search engine 
(i.e. wrong match)?

Started a vote on jdt-ui-dev: Always show potential matches at end?
Vote lasts until Dec. 11 2001


From jdt-core-dev mailing list:
eg: Rather than just hiding or sorting potential matches at the end could we
    present them so that the user understands the concept better, e.g., add a
    filter as Randy suggested, show a descriptive text in the status line when
    a potential match is selected etc.

Closing the vote.
Result is:
- don't sort potential match (y/n)
- add a filter
- somehow explain to the user what a potential match is maybe with
  (dialog, tooltip, status line...)

discussed with Dani again:
- show a first time info dialog when there are potential matches
  explain what a potential match is
- indicate potential matches in the label: ... (potential)
- no filter support initially
Replaced "?" with "(potential)"

TO DO: Needs dialog to explain "potential" to the user

fixed
forgot to change state to fixed



Searching and search result presentation



Bug 475793 - [formatter] Incorrect whitespace after lambda block 

APT - patch_v_548_to_p4_579324 

Bug 245793 - You cannot use Eclipse Variables when editing JRE preferences. 

25793 [rulers][api] Provide simpler way to add a decorator to a composite ruler - converted line number ruler to a contribution 

Partial fix for 5793:  Searching and search result presentation 