There seems to be a code resolve change: it returns the type if a local var is
selected.

This breaks refactoring: before I could select a local var and then rename it
but now I get a "Rename Type" wizard. It is no longer possible to rename a local
variable.

There seems to be a code resolve change: it returns the type if a local var is
selected.

This breaks refactoring: before I could select a local var and then rename it
but now I get a "Rename Type" wizard. It is no longer possible to rename a local
variable.
The fundamental behavior shouldn't have changed. Selecting a local variable has 
always answered its actual declared type, given there is no such thing as an 
element for a local variable.

Now it also does so for the variable declaration itself (where in the past it 
used to be doing nothing or misbehave in trying to lookup a type named like the 
variable).

Can you provide a concrete test case ?
It does not happend for all local variables (but if it happens it does so in
both cases i.e. on the declaration and where used).

Test Case:
- ensure to have the newest code of
org.eclipse.search.internal.ui.CopyToClipboardAction.java from ZRH repository (I
changed it today and that's where I saw the problem)
   NOTE: I have attached the corresponding CU
- select "labelProvider" in run()
- Refactor -> Rename

Looking at Search which in all cases uses/gets the type it rather loooks like a
JDT UI refactoring bug.
BUT I think it is wrong to return the type if I do code resolve on a local
variable name. It might be handy for F3/F4 but definitely isn't for search. IMO
code resolve should not be smart (or should have two modes like strict and
smart). It is not clear/logic to me that F3 on a field goes to the field while
F3 on a local var is smart and goes to the declaring type (though this is rather
UI related than a code resovle problem).


Created attachment 534
CopyToClipboardAction.java
Selecting a local variable has always answered its type (except for declaration 
which answered nothing). How did it work before to rename local variable ?
weird - it must've returned null before because 
what my rename action does is: try resolving - if succesful then rename the 
resolved symbol
if not succesful (null returned) - try, maybe it's a local variable
i will experiment with the opposite approach - i.e. try local vars first, use 
code resolve as a fallback
and will let you know
it worked
ok to close this report, i think
closed.


Returning the type when local var is selected breaks refactoring



HEAD - 125903 

fix for 12590 