User-Agent:       Mozilla/5.0 (Windows; U; Windows NT 5.1; en-US; rv:1.7) Gecko/20040608 Firefox/0.8.0+
Build Identifier: Mozilla/5.0 (Windows; U; Windows NT 5.1; en-US; rv:1.7) Gecko/20040608 Firefox/0.8.0+

With firefox 0.9 RC0, when I switch to fullscreen mode, the status bar gets
printed and wont go away.
When going back to normal window, the UI is all mixed up, double painting stuff
considering, it seems, the window with borders _and_ without borders

Reproducible: Always
Steps to Reproduce:
1.Go to fullscreen, appreciate the status bar
2.Go back to normal window, appreciate the artifacts

Actual Results:  
glitches

Expected Results:  
no glitches

User-Agent:       Mozilla/5.0 (Windows; U; Windows NT 5.1; en-US; rv:1.7) Gecko/20040608 Firefox/0.8.0+
Build Identifier: Mozilla/5.0 (Windows; U; Windows NT 5.1; en-US; rv:1.7) Gecko/20040608 Firefox/0.8.0+

With firefox 0.9 RC0, when I switch to fullscreen mode, the status bar gets
printed and wont go away.
When going back to normal window, the UI is all mixed up, double painting stuff
considering, it seems, the window with borders _and_ without borders

Reproducible: Always
Steps to Reproduce:
1.Go to fullscreen, appreciate the status bar
2.Go back to normal window, appreciate the artifacts

Actual Results:  
glitches

Expected Results:  
no glitches
WFM. I noticed a slight delay in the repainting of the Windows taskbar though,
but I'm not sure who's at fault there.
you tried with the same build? I will try to update my video drivers and report
back. This is reproducable everytime I try it
The build I am using is Mozilla/5.0 (Windows; U; Windows NT 5.1; en-US; rv:1.7)
Gecko/20040608 Firefox/0.8.0+

I don't even notice the delay anymore, so WFM.
Created attachment 150405
png of glitches

glitch happening with the statusbar when you go to fullscreen
Created attachment 150406
glitches when you go back to normal

glitches when you go back to normal
More information:

 * it only happens when the window has the exact same size as the screen
resolution (_not_ in maximized mode though)
sorry to flood this, as it might only be me having the problem, but I want to be
sure it wont be a bad review for firefox 0.9 ...

to get this bug to show, you have to set the right size (the only one showing up
the problem, which is the one all my windows are set to by default). It has to
be the exact same size as your screen (not maximized, and not fully stretched
when in normal mode because the borders will go beyond the edge of your screen) ... 

steps to set the window to the right size
a)switch to luna theme
b)hide the taskbar
c)set the desktop color to a bright pink (it'll help you to see when you arrive
to the exact border of your screen when you resize)
d)put the firefox window to normal mode, resize the four sides to fit to the
screen size (including window system borders)
e)now go to fullscreen, and see the glitch

that's as far as I can get to help
confirmed on a second computer with different hardware, running winxp
ok I come back on this bug, I was able to get more info from it

glitches when going to fullscreen happens when

 - firefox window width and height == the size of the window screen
 * so if you have a 800x600 screen and the firefox window is 800x600, if you hit
fullscreen, you will get glitches; it looks to me as a bad fullscreen sizing)
 * maximized windows _does not_ result in a firefox window == window screen
size, its slightly bigger so the bug wont show up in maximized state (sorry to
state the obvious, I want to make this case crystal clear some people can
reproduce it)

glitches when going back to normal window from fullscreen mode happens when
 - firefox window width and height == the size of the window screen (see above)
 and
 - firefox window is located on the screen 0,0

I can reproduce this on 3 different computers, with three video cards, using
lastest driver, etc.

there is this little program called hoekey (17k) that can help to set the right
window size (url : http://bcheck.arsware.org/ ), .. create a keyboard shorcut
that will resize the window to your screen width & height, and that will place
the window to coord 0,0 ... 

all of this doesnt mean this is a "walk on your head while holding a glass of
water with your right feet and you'll see the bug happening by looking in a
mirror with your right eye", I got it using a computer without touching anything
(by default, this computer sets the window size & location described in this post)

hope this post will help to confirm what I was ablo to reproduce on some computers

need..some..water
This bug has been fixed at least as of FF 0.9.


switching fullscreen creates ui artifacts

