User-Agent:       Mozilla/5.0 (Windows; U; Windows NT 5.1; de-DE; rv:1.7) Gecko/20040707 Firefox/0.9.2
Build Identifier: Mozilla/5.0 (Windows; U; Windows NT 5.1; de-DE; rv:1.7) Gecko/20040707 Firefox/0.9.2

Example: The notebook "Compaq Evo N1015v" (running OS: WinXP Home) has a special
scrollpad (left/right/up/down) in one big button which works with every
application except Firefox (other mozilla software not tested).

There is no mouse attached to the notebook, the touchpad works fine. When
pressing the scrollbutton in either direction, the Windows warning sound is
played but no scrolling is performed. Scrolling with arrow keys works fine.

Reproducible: Always
Steps to Reproduce:

User-Agent:       Mozilla/5.0 (Windows; U; Windows NT 5.1; de-DE; rv:1.7) Gecko/20040707 Firefox/0.9.2
Build Identifier: Mozilla/5.0 (Windows; U; Windows NT 5.1; de-DE; rv:1.7) Gecko/20040707 Firefox/0.9.2

Example: The notebook "Compaq Evo N1015v" (running OS: WinXP Home) has a special
scrollpad (left/right/up/down) in one big button which works with every
application except Firefox (other mozilla software not tested).

There is no mouse attached to the notebook, the touchpad works fine. When
pressing the scrollbutton in either direction, the Windows warning sound is
played but no scrolling is performed. Scrolling with arrow keys works fine.

Reproducible: Always
Steps to Reproduce:
If you have a Synaptics touchpad, try upgrading your drivers...

http://www.synaptics.com/support/downloads.cfm
I tried Synaptics newest 7.8.10.0 driver, but it doesn't work properly with any 
application on my system, so I had to switch back to the originally shipped 
6.3.7.0 version. Compaq doessn't offer a newer driver and Synaptic says:

"IMPORTANT 
             Please note that the following Synaptics drivers available for 

download 
             are generic TouchPad drivers. Many notebook manufacturers ship with 
             a customized Synaptics TouchPad driver, so we STRONGLY 
             RECOMMEND getting any driver updates from your notebook 
             manufacturer. Installing a generic driver can result in a loss of 

the 
             customized Synaptics TouchPad functionality that was designed for 
             your specific notebook. "

Now I believe them.

BTW: Virtual Scrolling (via finger movments on right edge of touchpad) does not 
work in Firebird either, but with any other application.
I was having the same problem and updated my synaptics driver and it now works
great.
Have an Acer Travelmate 4500 with windows xp sp2, synaptic virtual scroll and
four-way scroll buttons only work for vertical scrolling, Four-way Buttons or
Virtual scrolling DO NOT work for horizontal scrolling.  This laptop comes with
Synaptic driver/software version 5.9.  

Tried upgrading to Synaptics 7.9, this did not fix the bug, so reverted to
original drivers that the maufacturer supplied (v5.9).

This problem only exists in firefox and affects all webpages.


I can confirm this...

My system is a Compaq Armada 1750, with a Synaptics touchpad and software. I'm
running Firefox 1.0.

I have tried Windows 98 with Compaq's Synaptics drivers, 98 with generic
(newest) Synaptics drivers, and XP with generic (newest) Synaptics drivers
(v7.12.7 04Nov04). In all cases, scrolling by using the sides of the trackpad
works in other apps but not Firefox.

Needless to say, I'd love to have this fixed.
yeah!
Same this is happening on my HP DV1010US. Synaptics drivers are up to date as of
February, 2005. It kind of sucks because FireFox is such a great browser, and
much faster than IE, yet you can't even scroll using your touchpad...PLEASE FIX!
Much thanks! 
I am having the same problem.  Compaq Presario V2000 running Windows XP with a
Synaptics touchpad.  Newest versions of both Compaq's and Synaptics' generic
driver have virtual scrolling that works in all applications except for Firefox.
 I can try rolling back (previous versions seemed to work just fine) but what
seems to be happening is that a different type of system message is being sent
to the application than before...  If this is the new standard, then Firefox had
ought to support it!
Well can someone provide a link to the drivers that supposedly work for FF?
Having autoscroll not working on my laptop is very frustrating.
Well, I have a Compaq Presario 1700US laptop and the generic Synaptics drivers
work for me, but that might not be the case for other Compaq laptops.
I believe this is a major flaw in Firefox.  The one and only reason I do not 
use Firefox.  My laptop is a p2 Thinkpad 600 laptop so I need Moxillas speed, 
but i have no other way  (besides scroll bars) of quickly scrolling.
I have an Acer TravelMate 4601WLMi with a synaptics powered touchpad and I
cannot virtual scroll using the touchpad, or use the navikey in Firefox or
Thunderbird.  Works fine in IE and other windows apps.

This is a really annoying bug in Firefox.
I have a Compaq Presario X1000, Win XP Pro SP2.  Trackpad is a Synaptics
TouchPad V5.9, with driver version 7.12.7.0 (dated 11/4/04).  Other programs
work fine with the hardware scroll functionality in the trackpad, but with
Firefox and Mozilla, I get a small "scrollbar" icon when I attempt to scroll
with the trackpad.

Looking forward to a fix!

I think this may be a dupe of this bug
https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=202615 but I don't know what to do
about it. I would also love to see this problem fixed as it's very irritating to
not be able to horizontally scroll when I use my laptop...
On Gateway 3018GZ synaptics touchpad will not enable scrolling in FireFox, Have
most recent driver v7.12.7 and in accordance with bug 146962, I have checked to
make sure syntpenh.ini File has: 
[Mozilla]
FC = "MozillaWindowClass"
SF = 0x10000000
SF |= 0x00004000
All possible solutions have been exhausted, Please help! I would like to scroll!
I have a HP ZE5575SR WinXP SP2  with a Synaptics Touchpad ( Version 7.12.7.0)
and the same thing happens to me! The wheel works in other programs, but not
Firefox. I also get the little scroll icon when I try to scroll vertically.
I am having this problem as well. Synaptics driver 7.12.7. FireFox 1.0.3. I 
have also noticed that with FireFox running, sometimes the virtual scrolling 
stops working in IE. Closing FireFox doesn't help, I have to also close IE and 
re-open. I haven't been able to make this repeatable. Also, if I connect a 
Microsoft Optical USB mouse, the wheel works fine on the mouse, but the 
touchpad still doesn't scroll.
Firefox/1.0.3
HP Pavilion ze4560us
XP Home Edition
Downloaded and installed latest Synaptics driver.
Synaptics Driver - v7.12.7 04Nov04 

Virtual Scrolling does not work with Firefox. Special scrolling device on right
side of touchpad does not function.

To scroll must place the pointer over the scroll bar. Touch clicking and buttons
function.




This sounds like the problem I have, but my scroll bar worked great on MF up
until 2 weeks ago. Now nothing. It does work on IE and others just not MF.
Compac Presario X1000 with XP. Hope this helps.
Added by tuvia@vmgr.com 6/10/05: The virtual scrolling part of this bug is a big
problem for all laptop users.  The synaptics touchpad, found in almost all
brands of laptops that use atouchpad, has a section on the right side that
emulates a scrolling mouse wheel.  When the user tries to scroll with that, a
small scrolling picture appears in FF, but no scrolling will occur.  Current
version of touchpad driver for HP is 5.9.  Note that this problem has been
reported on user groups as far back as 2004; I am not sure why it was only
recently reports (I just started using FF.)  VERY BIG PROBLEM FOR LAPTOP
USERS!!!  This bug is making me return to IE!
Yes, I've had promises from both Synaptics and Mozilla the problem was being 
fixed for the past couple months. Result - nothing! I've gone back to IE and 
removed Firefox. Maybe someday they will realize more and more people are 
using laptops and fix the bug.
This seems to be fixed with the current Synaptics driver Ver. 8.0.6 and 
FireFox 1.0.4. The "scroll bar" cursor doesn't appear like it does in IE, but 
scrolling works great on my system!
This has occured since the latest version of the driver was released on the
Windows Update site.

When trying to use the virtual scrolling feature, the horizontal doesn't work,
and trying to use the vertical virtual scrolling changed the cursor icon so that
it shows a little scrollbar underneth the cursor.

Rolling back the driver corrects this fault.  Replicated in Firefox 1.0.4.  Only
happens in Firefox.

Will try 1.0.5 when I get chance.

Drivers that DON'T work on a Compaq M2045 Windows Xp SP2 Corporate:
7.12.7 H
7.12.2 G3
Fix confirmed from comment #22. On laptop with Synaptics, upgraded driver
7.12.3.0 with driver from synaptics web site 8.1.2. Problem is fixed, scroll pad
operates correctly.

With Microsoft and Synaptics both so tied into iPod is it possible Synaptics 
has reasons not to help Firefox?? Hmmmm.
I have the same troubles with my IBM (ThinkPad R31) Trackball and Firefox 1.5
Beta 2 under Windows 2000 SP4.
Should I open a new bug? (This is not related to Synaptics)

Moreover the middle button is not seen at all: I cannot click with it in Firefox.

Note that both scroll and click works perfectly with other applications!
I had this problem with the latest driver that hp was providing for my zd8000
series notebook but when i changed to the latest driver that was offered by
synaptics it worked
Fixed. Works with new synaptics driver and latest Firefox.


Notebook and laptop special scroll buttons and scroll pads are not supported.

