We've had something like a week of non-e10s testing for Nightly 36, which has now uplifted to Aurora.

We want to re-enable e10s for testing on Nightly to keep the bug reports and feedback flowing in.

We might disable this close to the end of the 37 train again like last time - we'll just see how far we get this cycle.

I agree with felipe (who mentioned this in IRC) - we'll also want to bump the CURRENT_NOTICE_COUNT to display the notification bar so users know what's going on.

We've had something like a week of non-e10s testing for Nightly 36, which has now uplifted to Aurora.

We want to re-enable e10s for testing on Nightly to keep the bug reports and feedback flowing in.

We might disable this close to the end of the 37 train again like last time - we'll just see how far we get this cycle.

I agree with felipe (who mentioned this in IRC) - we'll also want to bump the CURRENT_NOTICE_COUNT to display the notification bar so users know what's going on.
Created attachment 8530329
Re-enable e10s by default on Nightly 37. r=?
Comment on attachment 8530329
Re-enable e10s by default on Nightly 37. r=?

This seems to do the job.
Thanks!

remote:   https://hg.mozilla.org/integration/fx-team/rev/3b5072853c67
https://hg.mozilla.org/mozilla-central/rev/3b5072853c67
Could you people please stop doing this and come up with some way of detecting whether a user intentionally disabled it and respect the user's setting.

Every time you force this buggy thing on, I loose practically all my tabs.

It's really annoying.  There's already a lot of bugs open reflecting how unusable e10s currently is for normal browsing.  Fix the vast majority of those and then you'll get more people testing.  Forcing it on is pointless for those who can't tolerate its current state.

Thanks... I hope.
(In reply to IU from comment #5)
> Could you people please stop doing this and come up with some way of
> detecting whether a user intentionally disabled it and respect the user's
> setting.
> 
> Every time you force this buggy thing on, I loose practically all my tabs.
> 
> It's really annoying.  There's already a lot of bugs open reflecting how
> unusable e10s currently is for normal browsing.  Fix the vast majority of
> those and then you'll get more people testing.  Forcing it on is pointless
> for those who can't tolerate its current state.
> 
> Thanks... I hope.

Hello IU,

Currently, this only flips on e10s for users who have not opted out of using e10s. You can opt out by going to Preferences, choose the General pane, and uncheck "Enable E10S".

Thanks!
Not so.  The last time the flip happened, I had that pref disabled, from the previous time to that it was forced on, and a subsequent flip still forced e10s on again.

In addition, in about:config, I had browser.tabs.remote.autostart left at false but when browser.tabs.remote.autostart.1 was added and force on, e10s took effect (even though browser.tabs.remote.autostart remained false).

You can try for yourself. Leave e10s off and install a build that flips it on.  When a patch flips it on, it gets forced on regardless of what settings I have.
You're right - I stand corrected. I was under the assumption that the preferences option for e10s was wired to the browser.tabs.remote.autostart pref, and not browser.tabs.remote.autostart.1 pref, and that browser.tabs.remote.autostart was a global kill switch for e10s.

I seem to be wrong. I have filed bug 1106216 for you.
