Tracking bug for Firefox/Pocket integration.

Tracking bug for Firefox/Pocket integration.
Do you plan to add animation after adding pages to list Pocket? For example, it is possible to make the animation as it is now when the download is complete. Because now it is not clear what action takes place, it is not user-friendly interface.
Is Pocket a 1st'ish party (like Hello) or a 3rd party extension (paid/licensed doohickey)?  

If third party, please make it appear in the add-ons/extensions list so that I can remove it completely.  Ideally, ask the user before installing it?  

I'm on the beta channel, and I know I'm just a guinea pig for tests and incomplete features, but before it hits the release channel I hope it drops a little more gently on the user than it did on me here.
This is rather ridiculous. I gather you need sponsors' money, but the whole point of Mozilla is promoting an open web; building proprietary services into the browser contradicts that. Feedback from users on Pocket integration seems almost universally negative, see:
https://www.reddit.com/r/firefox/comments/35u720/firefox_beta_now_integrates_pocket/

From that thread it appears that justification is that you need a synchronising Reading List by June, which seems a rather arbitrary deadline and one I believe users would be happy to miss, especially since I've been using reading mode on Firefox for Android for quite some time without it. Other users point out that Pocket harvests a lot of data about reading habits, which has major privacy implications and should be the subject of a user-facing disclaimer in the install process.

Pocket already appears to offer a Firefox extension anyway for those who care: https://getpocket.com/welcome?ep=1
Please keep the Reading List (alongside Pocket) or provide other 'read-it-later' functionality that works without any accounts and synchronization - just like bookmarks or passwords. User have the option, not an obligation, to save their passwords and bookmarks in cloud.
Hi there,
i my opinion the "pocket" integration itself is a bug. Such features should be plugins. The user should have the freedom to decide to install such plugins or if he don't like it not to do so.
I don't like such pressure from Mozilla to the end user. It's not nice for the user to search the web just to deactivate this feature.
would be really cool if I could right click on a link and press on "Save to Pocket" because I want to read it _later_
Also it would be really cool if I could set something like a pookmark in a specific page

For example: I'm currently reading a super long article (wikipedia for example) and then I need to go away but want to read completely
Would be really cool if I could set like a red line or something that tells me "you are currently at this spot in the article. You read everything above. You didn't read anythign below"

I'm sorry for posting this here instead of creating a ticket for it. is this inappropiate?
(In reply to Jonas Dralle from comment #7)
> I'm sorry for posting this here instead of creating a ticket for it. is this
> inappropiate?

Our usual work flow is to file new "bug" reports for every such feature/task, so that they can be individually tracked.

That said, those are two very interesting proposals! Can you file them as new ones (just use the same product/components as here, i.e. "Firefox"/"Pocket") or should I do that for you?
(In reply to Robert Kaiser (:kairo@mozilla.com) from comment #8)

It's now available at #1172322

Have a nice day
It should be noted that the Pocket(TM) Terms of Service claims to go into effect at *install*:

"By installing the Pocket™ application, visiting our website or installing or using any of the Pocket Technologies, you are accepting these terms of service."

Pocket(TM) Terms of Service also has no provision to use disabling as a method to avoid agreeing to the ToS.  Insead, the user is required to uninstall the Pocket(TM) application (or I guess in this case they must uninstall Firefox integrated with Pocket(TM)):

"If you do not agree to these terms, please do not install our application, access our website or use any of our products or services."

I believe the "about:rights" document should be updated accordingly.

It would also be nice if Firefox has a feature to help track updates to the Pocket(TM) Terms of Service and Pocket(TM) Privacy Policy.  Any changes to the Pocket(TM) Terms of Service claim to take effect on users with the Pocket(TM) application installed immediately when posted to their website.  Any changes to the Pocket(TM) Privacy Policy claim to take effect 30 days after posting to their website.

My suggestion is whenever either document is updated, the Pocket(TM) branded logo on the bar should glow red.  By clicking the glowing icon, they should be then presented with the updated document(s).  Also, the user then should be presented with both "I Agree" and "I Disagree."  Clicking "I Agree should return Pocket(TM) to it default color and cause it to return it's normal function.  Clicking "I Disagree" should launch an uninstaller for Firefox/Pocket(TM).

I believe these changes will greatly help assist Firefox users to conform to the Pocket(TM) Terms of Service they are inherently agreeing to by installing the Firefox/Pocket(TM) application.
Created attachment 8625333
unpocket.diff

I've a patch that fixes the symptoms of this issue, but I'm not sure I understand the underlying cause very well.
This is a metabug, and the "please remove Pocket" issue is already covered by bug 1172126 and the .governance discussion.
Pocket integration is finished, so this metabug doesn't need to stay open anyway.
