User-Agent:       Mozilla/5.0 (Windows; U; Windows NT 5.0; en-US; rv:1.7) Gecko/20040712 Firefox/0.9.1+
Build Identifier: Mozilla/5.0 (Windows; U; Windows NT 5.0; en-US; rv:1.7) Gecko/20040712 Firefox/0.9.1+

A different icon should be used for both livemarks and livemark items.

This will avoid confusion to users managing their bookmarks like when trying to
move items into a feed folder, or looking for  "bookmark" they thought they have
and may have disappeared as the feed changed. 

Reproducible: Always
Steps to Reproduce:
1. Open the Boomarks menu or the Bookmarks Manager
2.
3.

Actual Results:  
Folders and feeds look the same.

Expected Results:  
They should look different for clarity.

User-Agent:       Mozilla/5.0 (Windows; U; Windows NT 5.0; en-US; rv:1.7) Gecko/20040712 Firefox/0.9.1+
Build Identifier: Mozilla/5.0 (Windows; U; Windows NT 5.0; en-US; rv:1.7) Gecko/20040712 Firefox/0.9.1+

A different icon should be used for both livemarks and livemark items.

This will avoid confusion to users managing their bookmarks like when trying to
move items into a feed folder, or looking for  "bookmark" they thought they have
and may have disappeared as the feed changed. 

Reproducible: Always
Steps to Reproduce:
1. Open the Boomarks menu or the Bookmarks Manager
2.
3.

Actual Results:  
Folders and feeds look the same.

Expected Results:  
They should look different for clarity.
-> firefox. seamonkey has no livemarks.
Use a normal folder with thunderbold on it for the folder and a item with
thunderbold for the bookmark (expand skin/classic/global/icons/folder-item.png)
I'm asking for blocking-aviary1.0, as this _is_ a pivotal new feature in Firefox
(given the ease of use of this feature, many feed neophytes are bound to try it
out, as well. Hell, that's how I discovered the use of feeds! ;-)), and
improving UI clarity for this feature feels necessary to avoid non-techie people
being scared away from it.

Live Bookmarks _are_ (obviously) a very different notion than classic Bookmarks,
and I also think it'd be clearer if the folder icons were differentiated. It
definitely shouldn't be something too obvious, either (such as writing LIVE on
the folder in a black font ;-)), but perhaps something more subtle such as a
slight silhouette of a thunderbolt imprinted on it.
Created attachment 156103
A new random improvement to the icon
We could simply use skin/classic/browser/page-livemarks.png which is already
part of the package (classic.jar)
(In reply to comment #5)
> We could simply use skin/classic/browser/page-livemarks.png which is already
> part of the package (classic.jar)

That icon looks too... "brutal" too me. I believe we need something that reminds
of a folder as well. I'll try to throw something together with my newbie skills,
give me a few minutes ;-).
Remenber, it's just the folder-icon you should/can replace.
The bookmark icons themselves aren't replacable
Created attachment 156109
Mockup for more apt live bookmark icon.

My idea of a better live bookmark icon would be something along the lines of
the above. Basically I think the thunderbolt idea is good, but the folder
aspect of live bookmarks must be included as well, to avoid user confusion.
Created attachment 156111
live bookmark folder icon

How about this one ?
(made with M$ Photoeditor so the quality is far from perfect)
It looks like I was wrong, and we can't (easily) use the underlying feed's
favicon with an overlay for the folder icon.  The menuitem icons are a css
list-style-image, and we have no way of overlaying multiple images there.  So, I
think we're going to need folder icons.  I'm not sure we need to constrain it to
looking like the current folder icons, though it should definitely imply a
container.  Cc'ing bart on this as we'd discussed it previously, for any input.
Vlad, Kevin Gerich wants to know if you have an ETA on when the live bookmark
attribute will be ready.  I think he's waiting on creating the artwork until he
knows there's an RSS attribute that uses it. 
Created attachment 156387
livemark-different-icon-0.patch

Patch for this; the new image file (in browser themes) is the same layout as
the current folder icon thing.	Just the folder thing is used though, the
individual "page" item is ignored, though it might not be ignored later.
Do we really need a specific icon for livemarks? If possible, my suggestion is
to just add an small overlay (like the arrow for shortcut icons in windows). IMO
the icon behind the overlay should be the website's icon. Most websites I've
seen using RSS also have icons, so generally this shouldn't be a problem; for
those which don't offer an icon, /then/ we may need a new icon (though,
remembering there's an overlay, a folder or a blank page wouldn't look all that
bad, especially for a folder).

The overlay could be a small thunder in the bottom right, a "[RSS]" in the
bottom... well, something that must be understandable at 16x16, but I think the
responsible for the theme would be the best person to try to design and/or
suggest something here.
Comment on attachment 156387
livemark-different-icon-0.patch

a=asa for aviary checkin
in. Kevin will be all over this soon (though I rather like my nice shade-of-blue
folders!)
On the 20040825 build, there are now no icons next to Livemark folders...is this
what was intended?  
(In reply to comment #16)
> On the 20040825 build, there are now no icons next to Livemark folders...is this
> what was intended?  

Nope, they should be showing up -- they do with the linux nightlies.  I forgot
to check in the png files as binary, so that could be screwing up the windows
build.  I just fixed that, but reopening this until we can verify it works in a
nightly.
Great work Vlad, latest sweetlou build got them blue folders! ;-)
New icon doesn't appear in sidebar/manager: bug 257054.
sorry for bugspam, long-overdue mass reassign of ancient QA contact bugs, filter on "beltznerLovesGoats" to get rid of this mass change
