repro:
go to url and compare to the one used by yahoo to the current icon in searchbar.

exp:
same icon
newbies on the web won't recognise the icon used by "us".


I'll attach 2 16x16px icons (both 89bytes large), one with white and one with
tranparent background.

repro:
go to url and compare to the one used by yahoo to the current icon in searchbar.

exp:
same icon
newbies on the web won't recognise the icon used by "us".


I'll attach 2 16x16px icons (both 89bytes large), one with white and one with
tranparent background.
Created attachment 158022
yahoo icon transp. bgd
Created attachment 158023
yahoo icon white bgd
Sounds really good to me. That's a net gain of 198 bytes. And surely the other
search engine icons may be shrink as well.
Bart: is there a trademark/marketing related issue with using one of these new
icons?
Created attachment 158046
google icon transp background

google transp bgd, 97 bytes
Created attachment 158047
google icon white background

google icon transp bgd, 97 bytes
Created attachment 158051
ebay icon whith background

down to 181 bytes

the others are png's and i can't optimise those
Peter: that's cool to help reducing the size of these icons. However, there
should be a compromize because the quality of new google and eBay has a lot
decreased (not I like the current eBay icon, in which the 'y' is a blurred top
right point)
Let's wait for Bart's inputs because I am not sure we can ship trademarked icon
unless we have the permission.
All of them were poor quality with lots of blur.
I tried to sharpen them, yes, even eBaY.
At the end of the day you guys decide, take them leave them, whatever ;-)

btw Yahoo is the only icon the original shapes/colors.


Thanks for asking.

YES.  In fact a Yahoo person just contacted me about this issue yesterday.  

Let's get someone from Yahoo to help out with this.
Created attachment 158773
yahoo.gif from Yahoo

Can you check this in instead.
*** Bug 259134 has been marked as a duplicate of this bug. ***
Rafael, where did you get that icon , no searchpage of Yahoo is using that ?
I got it from the designers at Yahoo.  I guess it's their new logo?  Anyhow,
it's what we need to use.
ok, thanks for the information
Created attachment 158787
Proportional Ebay Icon

Here is a proportional ebay icon. The existing one is mangled and stretched. It
is a trans gif are pngs allowed? The transparency would look much more refined.
Created attachment 158788
Proportional ebay icon not cropped

The original icon i submitted was cropped a bit to enlarge the ebay logo for
better visibility this one includes the logo in its entirety. Please include if
you like it.
Created attachment 158790
New Dictionary.com Icon

I dont know where the previous one came from. If it is official or preferred
please ignore this attachment. I simply extracted the official logo from the
website cropped the Dictionary.com text off and resized the glyph a little.
Thought we should use the same logo as the site if we can. Again Gif.
The dictionary.com icon Fx currently uses is the dictionary.com favicon. It's
also much more recognisible!
Created attachment 158796
Ebay favicon (.ico->optimised gif)

Here's my attempt at the ebay icon. I used the ebay favicon as a source.
149bytes
Created attachment 160257
eBay from eBay, Inc.

pch, 

Can you use this image?  Official one from eBay designer.  If it needs to get
fixed, I'd like to have them do it.

-Rafael
Created attachment 160380
safe image from Yahoo designer

From our design contact at Yahoo.  pch can you use this image instead?	The
purple Yahoo logo (while provided by Yahoo), isn't what they want to use just
yet.
