- Add another search engine that is similar to dictionary.com.
- Update Amazon plug-in so that <input name="tag" value="kurona-20">
is <input name="tag" value="mozilla-20">

Looks good.

- Add another search engine that is similar to dictionary.com.
- Update Amazon plug-in so that <input name="tag" value="kurona-20">
is <input name="tag" value="mozilla-20">

Looks good.
patch coming up, assigning to AT.
Going to attach my bookmarks.html WIP, too.
Created attachment 163014
fix amazon, add wikipedia

I fixed amazon, added wikipedia. I fixed that plugin from mycroft to not use
the
full text search anymore, as that is disabled these days. It just does the
regular
article search. Tested it on my local build, works like charm. At least on 
"halloween" and "William Shakespeare" (so multiple word search works as good as
it
can right now).
Created attachment 163015
bookmarks.html, WIP

Here is my bookmarks html. As the most information doesn't show in the html
view
of it, I add it as text/plain.
Target of "Erste Schritte" still to be determined. As may some of the links in 

themozilla category.

I have one nit about the ebay icon for the search (which is copied over from 
en-US), could we use one with a transparent background? So that it doesn't look

bad in the drop-down?
Created attachment 164779
the bookmarks as I see them
Comment on attachment 164779
the bookmarks as I see them

Abdulkadir, could you take a look over these?
the community.mozilla-europe.org link will redirect to your forums until we get
our act together
Axel, they look goood to me, but "Schnellsuche" should be the last folder in the
row, since it's content isn't usefull at all. Quicksearch uses the keyboard, so
klicking the bookmarks doesn't make sense.

Another thing is: there is no page, that shows, how to use the quicksearch, even
the help doesn't cover that topic. Maybe we should add the old explaning
bookmark again, or create a new page on mozilla-europe.org for that purpose.
What do you think?
Created attachment 165027
add wikipedia.de, fix search engines, make ebay use tracker, good bookmarks
Comment on attachment 165027
add wikipedia.de, fix search engines, make ebay use tracker, good bookmarks

+r if you change the description of ebay search plugin to "Online-Auktionen"
Comment on attachment 165027
add wikipedia.de, fix search engines, make ebay use tracker, good bookmarks

a=me for checking this in on the branch
This was checked-in last week. fixed.
