This shortcut was introduced by bug 305955 on all platforms but Unix.

This shortcut was introduced by bug 305955 on all platforms but Unix.
"Add Bookmark" is in the Tools section.  Adding "Bookmark All Tabs" to the same
place is doable, but it conceivably works better in the "Windows and Tabs"
section.  I'm leaning toward renaming "Add Bookmark" to "Bookmark Current Page"
and adding "Bookmark All Tabs" to Tools, mainly because items in the W&T section
deal with opening, closing, and moving windows and tabs, not as much with tasks
which relate to them somewhat indirectly.  Steffen, what thoughts do you have on
placement here, and what do you suggest?
I think the way it is in HEAD is good.  "Bookmark This Page" is unambiguous, and
having the "Bookmark All Tabs" item directly below is intuitive.  I'm not sure
where the OP wants this to be documented, but the shortcut is listed directly
after the menu item in the bookmarks menu.
> I'm leaning toward renaming "Add Bookmark" to "Bookmark Current Page"
> and adding "Bookmark All Tabs" to Tools, mainly because items in the W&T section
> deal with opening, closing, and moving windows and tabs, not as much with tasks
> which relate to them somewhat indirectly.
Yeah, exactly. Plus we already have "Bookmarks" in Tools, plus the W&T section
is pretty long, whereas Tools is short.
(In reply to comment #2)
I'm retarded and didn't look at the component before opening my big
mouth...please disregard most of my comment.

However, I think that the labels for the shortcut in the documentation should
mirror the label that is in the menus to prevent any possible ambiguities and to
make internationalization easier.
Created attachment 194488
Patch
Comment on attachment 194488
Patch

Yeah, let's keep this in alphabetical order. "This" page? Hmm, I hope nobody
will assume that "This" refers to shortcuts.xhtml.
r=me with either "This" or "Current".
please post announcements to the l10n newsgroup when you check any of these
kinds of patches in. THanks.
(In reply to comment #6)
> Yeah, let's keep this in alphabetical order. "This" page? Hmm, I hope nobody
> will assume that "This" refers to shortcuts.xhtml.

I thought about this but decided that either way is possible to misunderstand,
so I went with the one we already use.

(In reply to comment #7)
> please post announcements to the l10n newsgroup when you check any of these
> kinds of patches in. THanks.

Message posted, with a question about whether we should CC firefoxl10n at
hotmail dot com on such bugs as well.

Anyway, patch checked in on branch/trunk, marking FIXED...
