User-Agent:       Mozilla/5.0 (Windows; U; Windows NT 5.1; en-US; rv:1.8.0.3) Gecko/20060426 Firefox/1.5.0.3
Build Identifier: Mozilla/5.0 (Windows; U; Windows NT 5.1; en-US; rv:1.8.0.3) Gecko/20060426 Firefox/1.5.0.3

After installing Outpost firewall, I noticed that Firefox sends unexpected outgoing http requests to about 8 sites.  No actual connection occurs. I have never been to these sites.  I completely uninstalled Firefox, downloaded a fresh copy and resinstalled.  The same thing happens. This looks like a possible  DOS attack on these sites using Firefox.  This does not happen with IE or Opera.

I hope there is a fix because I would hate to give up on Firefox.

Reproducible: Always

Steps to Reproduce:
1.Start Firefox.
2.
3.

Actual Results:  
No Special Steps.  You can browse or not browse.  The requests happen.

Expected Results:  
No HTTP Requests.

User-Agent:       Mozilla/5.0 (Windows; U; Windows NT 5.1; en-US; rv:1.8.0.3) Gecko/20060426 Firefox/1.5.0.3
Build Identifier: Mozilla/5.0 (Windows; U; Windows NT 5.1; en-US; rv:1.8.0.3) Gecko/20060426 Firefox/1.5.0.3

After installing Outpost firewall, I noticed that Firefox sends unexpected outgoing http requests to about 8 sites.  No actual connection occurs. I have never been to these sites.  I completely uninstalled Firefox, downloaded a fresh copy and resinstalled.  The same thing happens. This looks like a possible  DOS attack on these sites using Firefox.  This does not happen with IE or Opera.

I hope there is a fix because I would hate to give up on Firefox.

Reproducible: Always

Steps to Reproduce:
1.Start Firefox.
2.
3.

Actual Results:  
No Special Steps.  You can browse or not browse.  The requests happen.

Expected Results:  
No HTTP Requests.
which sites? Are they mozilla.org or mozilla.com sites? Do you have any extensions installed which might be phoning home? You can disable extensions by starting in safe mode and then see if the sites are still contacted.
The sites are not Mozilla related, and I did turn off all extensions.  Further, I uninstalled, manually deleted the Firefox directory and the profile directory and deleted all registry entries for Firefox before doing a clean reinstall.  This did not help.  However, A friend says his Firefox does not phone random sites as mine does.  My next task is to capture some of the urls and search my registry to see if they are imbedded there.  Any suggestions would be appreciated.  I do not want this to happen to other Firefox users.  I can furnish a partial Outpost log if this would be helpful.
(In reply to comment #2)
> I can furnish a partial Outpost log if this would be helpful.

Couldn't hurt. Do you have an old version of Java, Flash or other plugin installed that might have been exploited? For example, Java 1.4.1 is known to have issues which are exploited by some sites.

My Java and Flash are current.  1.5 and 8, respectively.  I searched my registry and file names for the exploited urls but found nothing.  Later tonight, I will search the contents of all files for the url names.  I really appreciate your help.  Here is the Outpost log:

5:33:24 PM	Firewall Rule Report	Allow outbound connection for FIREFOX.EXE to www.binhaigolf.com port HTTP
5:33:09 PM	Firewall Rule Report	Allow outbound connection for FIREFOX.EXE to www.bestcheapdomainregistration.info port HTTP
5:33:08 PM	Firewall Rule Report	Allow outbound connection for FIREFOX.EXE to www.bennylife.com port HTTP
5:33:08 PM	Firewall Rule Report	Allow outbound connection for FIREFOX.EXE to www.benininfo.com port HTTP
5:33:08 PM	Firewall Rule Report	Allow outbound connection for FIREFOX.EXE to www.befag.ru port HTTP
5:33:07 PM	Firewall Rule Report	Allow outbound connection for FIREFOX.EXE to www.bbrealservis.sk port HTTP
5:33:07 PM	Firewall Rule Report	Allow outbound connection for FIREFOX.EXE to allanconi.it port HTTP
5:32:44 PM	Firewall Rule Report	Allow outbound connection for FIREFOX.EXE to eleceltek.com port HTTP
5:32:42 PM	Firewall Rule Report	Allow outbound connection for FIREFOX.EXE to ala-bg.net port HTTP
5:32:42 PM	Firewall Rule Report	Allow outbound connection for FIREFOX.EXE to www.connectesl.com port HTTP
5:32:41 PM	Firewall Rule Report	Allow outbound connection for FIREFOX.EXE to www.khonkaenpoc.com port HTTP
5:32:38 PM	Firewall Rule Report	Allow outbound connection for FIREFOX.EXE to www.colin18.com port HTTP
5:32:22 PM	Firewall Rule Report	Allow outbound connection for FIREFOX.EXE to www.casaquecanta.com port HTTP
5:32:22 PM	Firewall Rule Report	Allow outbound connection for FIREFOX.EXE to www.chilotitomarino.cl port HTTP
5:32:21 PM	Firewall Rule Report	Allow outbound connection for FIREFOX.EXE to www.cansultdubai.ae port HTTP
5:32:20 PM	Firewall Rule Report	Allow outbound connection for FIREFOX.EXE to www.cansew.ca port HTTP
5:32:19 PM	Firewall Rule Report	Allow outbound connection for FIREFOX.EXE to www.calidad.biz port HTTP
5:31:51 PM	Firewall Rule Report	Allow outbound connection for FIREFOX.EXE to www.bronko-m.ru port HTTP
5:31:50 PM	Firewall Rule Report	Allow outbound connection for FIREFOX.EXE to www.boldrussell.com port HTTP
5:31:50 PM	Firewall Rule Report	Allow outbound connection for FIREFOX.EXE to www.vnettools.com port HTTP
5:31:49 PM	Firewall Rule Report	Allow outbound connection for FIREFOX.EXE to www.nmtltd.com port HTTP
5:31:32 PM	Firewall Rule Report	Allow outbound connection for FIREFOX.EXE to www.binhaigolf.com port HTTP

http://vil.nai.com/vil/content/v_139109.htm describes a trojan that tries to access some of the same URLs.  It's possible that the trojan uses your browser to access those URLs, in order to evade a software outgoing firewall.
(In reply to comment #4)
> My Java and Flash are current.  1.5 and 8, respectively.

Not precise enough. Java should be 1.5.0_06 or higher, and Flash should be 8.0r24 -- vulnerabilities have been announced for lower versions of each product.

Those sites aren't anything embedded in Firefox. Firefox will check for updates for the product itself, extensions, search plugins, and RSS feeds. All default items will check only with a mozilla.org or mozilla.com host. If you've installed additional ones they may have their own update hosts.

It looks to me like you've got some form of ad-ware installed on your system. I recommend you scan your system with an anti-spyware scanner and see what you've got. If you do have spyware the forums at castlecops should be able to help you get rid of it (http://www.castlecops.com/). There are probably several other good places, that's just one.

If you change the windows default browser to something else (IE is handy for this since it's built-in) do those requests start going out through IE instead of Firefox? If so that would definitely point to external adware/spyware rather than any direct hijacking of Firefox.

Identifying which malware it is will probably give us a big clue to where it came. Far more of these things piggyback on intentional installs than hack onto a system through browser flaws. Have you installed anything else recently? Have any young relatives had access to your computer? Teens seem particularly good at infecting computers.
Problem solved.  Thanks, dveditz@cruzio.com, you were dead on.  The problem was an older version of flash player.  I had 8.0.22.0.  I upgraded to 8.0.24.0 and the problem went away.  It is a great relief to get Firefox back.

I do wish we knew where the exploit came from.
You should probably also scan your computer for malware.  I doubt updating Flash would get rid of it -- at best, it would prevent more malware from getting on your computer through exploits targeting old versions of Flash.
I run Spy Sweeper on a hands off schedule every night.  I run Outpost's excelent anti-spyware sweeper on demand.  I have not found the malware.  I have used ZoneAlarm for a long time prior to switching to Outpost.  Any suggestions on finding the malware will be appreciated.

I am very impressed at the expertise and rapid response here.  Thanks!
