I threw the original image together in a minute for the trunk and have since cleaned it up. New image coming up shortly.

I threw the original image together in a minute for the trunk and have since cleaned it up. New image coming up shortly.
Created attachment 223272
new image

Mike, the image I checked in was done in a rush and I'd like to land this cleaned up version on the trunk. I used the png on the Minefield welcome page to create it.
Created attachment 223273
screenshots - before and after

Screenshots of before and after so you can compare the change.
Filed Bug 339204 for the garbled BMP-image (at least on my computer). 
Comment on attachment 223272
new image

This looks a little bit downsampled to me. Let's do this right, and get Steven to deliver us a quick graphic.
Steven - can you generate some new BMP images for the NSIS installer? We'd be looking for three, I think:

 - using Minefield logo
 - using Bon Echo/unbranded logo
 - using Firefox logo

Thanks.
Created attachment 223312
Cleaner Minefield install graphic (checked in)

Here's a cleaner installer graphic for Minefield. I'm not sure what the format/dimensions requiremetns are for the NSIS installer - let me know if anything else/different is needed.
Created attachment 223464
official image (checked in)
Created attachment 223465
sample header

Steven, could you create two more images that are 150px width by 57px height along the lines of the attachment for the wizard header for official, trunk, and branch?
Created attachment 223466
branch image (checked in)
(In reply to comment #8)
> Steven, could you create two more images that are 150px width by 57px height
> along the lines of the attachment for the wizard header for official, trunk,
> and branch?

Yup. What are the color/alpha limitations. Are we able to have something with full alpha-transparency? I noticed another bug about how this installer header doesn't match if the system colors are off-white.
Comment on attachment 223464
official image (checked in)

Mike, need this on the branch.
Comment on attachment 223466
branch image (checked in)

and this one too.
Checked in the left watermark wizard images to trunk. I'll post the image color/alpha limitations for Steven as soon as I find them.
Steven, the control used is the standard Static control with the SS_BITMAP style. I've never tried to get them to support alpha transparency and don't know if it is possible. Unless I am mistaken the bug about the header you are referring to involves using high contrast and isn't affected by the header image since the image doesn't cover the entire header (e.g. it isn't used for the background of the text with NSIS).
Robert - thanks for looking into that. The bug I had in mind was bug #267829 - any thoughts on that?
Steven - NSIS forces a white background for the entire header. I just checked out a couple of msi setups from MS and they do the same thing so I think that it is acceptable to do this. There is at least one high contrast bug as well.
Created attachment 223758
official header (checked in)

I used the mozicon128 and reduced its size for the header... not sure if it is acceptable but I had some time to do the header images.
Created attachment 223760
branch (checked in)
Created attachment 223761
trunk (checked in)
These look fine Robert. Thanks.
Fixed on trunk.
