The font names in locales.nsi for zh-TW and zh-CN seem to be copied over from
the NSIS stuff in their respective encoding, but need to be in utf-8, so that
the following call to iconv succeeds.

The font names in locales.nsi for zh-TW and zh-CN seem to be copied over from
the NSIS stuff in their respective encoding, but need to be in utf-8, so that
the following call to iconv succeeds.
Created attachment 227955
convert from the respective codepages to utf-8

I converted zh-CN_font from CP936 and zh-TW_font from CP950 to utf-8.

This fixes the installers-zh-CN target for me locally at least. I can't test zh-TW yet, but that should be just a matter of hours, but I don't want to wait for that.
It replaced by ~~~~,not in UTF-8.Is it really fixed?
Comment on attachment 227955
convert from the respective codepages to utf-8

xemacs is not utf-8 enough, including the output from iconv caused a mess. Trying again.
Created attachment 227956
use eclipse to copy and paste :-(

Used eclipse for copy and paste, what a waste of resources.
Checked the output of diff with hex editor, too. It's something non-trivial, but we still need to figure out if the fonts make sense on the respective systems.

Holy, the build at http://people.mozilla.com/~axel/firefox-2.0a3.zh-CN.win32.installer.exe is updated already to the new patch.
It's look like fine. :P
Shall I test in zh-TW installer?
(In reply to comment #5)
> It's look like fine. :P
> Shall I test in zh-TW installer?
> 

I can't build one just yet, that's pending on your check-ins :-), but if you have a build environment for windows, sure. (That's non-trivial to set up for the 1.8 branch, though.)
Created attachment 227969
add ja and ko to locales.nsi, fix the encodings of zh-CN and -TW

Attach the same patch as in bug 343449. This is not really a dupe of that or vice versa, the two are just really close and on the same timeline, so I'd like to land one as part of the other.
Comment on attachment 227969
add ja and ko to locales.nsi, fix the encodings of zh-CN and -TW

I verified that they convert to the same characters for each font name as provided by NSIS. I believe we will need to add -cs to iconv so it doesn't fail when there are invalid characters.
Actually, I want it to fail on illegal chars, as they will likely break the installer if not the build system. Which is worse.
We should be able to one-off the conversion of locales.nsi though... true?
(In reply to comment #10)
> We should be able to one-off the conversion of locales.nsi though... true?

We don't really convert locales.nsi, we just pull the fontname and size, put it into the generated nlf.in, and that's then iconv'ed to baseLocale.nlf.
I hope that I got that comment right, this is half guessing.
We also use it to define whether the ui is RTL. I'll check to see how NSIS handles the file being in utf8 for setting this.
Comment on attachment 227969
add ja and ko to locales.nsi, fix the encodings of zh-CN and -TW

Checked in on the trunk. gaius is green, tested the installer interface of the build in tinderbox/gaius-trunk.

As we don't expect locales to test this on the trunk soon, I'd like to land this on the branch to see if it fixes the reported bugs.
Created attachment 227996
zh-CN installer screenshots

Hi Axel,
  Thanks,Please find attached screenshots of Simplified Chinese installer.
  It works now, but the font size looks a little bit big.
  btw: firefox cannot be started after installed,maybe it's another bug.
BR,Holy
(In reply to comment #14)
>   btw: firefox cannot be started after installed,maybe it's another bug.
Most likely due to being built with VC 8

Created attachment 227998
firefox 1.5 installer screenshots,font looks better
(In reply to comment #15)
> Created an attachment (id=227998) [edit]
> firefox 1.5 installer screenshots,font looks better
Making the font size smaller will most likely fix this.
--> blocking Fx2beta1, as per l10n strategy for this release
fixed on trunk and branch, please open separate bugs for particular font and size requests.
