The drop down menus from the forward and back buttons appear really disconnected from the buttons. Previously the buttons had borders that met the top of the drop down, now the drop down just looks too far down.

The drop down menus from the forward and back buttons appear really disconnected from the buttons. Previously the buttons had borders that met the top of the drop down, now the drop down just looks too far down.
This is very vague.  Can you attach a screenshot or clarify?  Is this a dupe of bug 347447?
Created attachment 232245
popup menu too far down

This illustrates the issue. The popup menu looks more connected with the toolbar below than the back button.
Thanks.  Nominating for blocking, but this might get -ed.

One way to solve this would be to draw some kind of border in just the case where we actually have a dropdown menu.  I think that would be an improvement.
I'd be quite happy with the popup just appearing a few pixels above so it's top is no longer the same line as the top of the toolbar below.

this doesn't really affect usability, and is more of a personal thing.  If someone comes up with a patch that handles not having closebuttons as well, we would consider a patch.
(In reply to comment #5)
> If
> someone comes up with a patch that handles not having closebuttons as well

I don't understand what problem this is referring to.
er, dropmarkers

I totally crossed the streams there.
(In reply to comment #5)
> this doesn't really affect usability, and is more of a personal thing.  If
> someone comes up with a patch that handles not having closebuttons as well, we
> would consider a patch.
(In reply to comment #7)
> er, dropmarkers

I still don't really understand what this is referring to :(.  Which item is "not having dropmarkers" that a patch would need to handle?

See also bug 351118, which could in theory "fix" this on Linux, where the back and forward buttons already have bevels.
As far as I'm concerned this is now fixed with bevels coming back to the toolbar.

(In reply to comment #9)
> As far as I'm concerned this is now fixed with bevels coming back to the
> toolbar.

I agree, resolving as such.
