On Linux, the new theme icons have too much horizontal space between them.  This is possibly caused by the same cause as bug 347447, where the icons all have padding around them for the old "draw button border on hover" effect that apparently wasn't taken into account in the new theme design.  (I don't think this effect is consistent with the rest of my OS, so it would be OK to remove it.)

Screenshot to follow shortly.

On Linux, the new theme icons have too much horizontal space between them.  This is possibly caused by the same cause as bug 347447, where the icons all have padding around them for the old "draw button border on hover" effect that apparently wasn't taken into account in the new theme design.  (I don't think this effect is consistent with the rest of my OS, so it would be OK to remove it.)

Screenshot to follow shortly.
Created attachment 232241
Large icons, new (top) vs. old (bottom)
Created attachment 232242
Small icons, new (top) vs. old (bottom)
remove the location bar and the buttons get smaller (vertically). The location bar it too big. There is still much-too-much horizontal spacing between the buttons however.
Created attachment 232946
path for browser.css inside classic.jar, just so ye have an idea what I did. I can't find where to make the changes in the source tree :/

just removes margins.
Created attachment 232950
screenshot with margins removed of small icons

once we fix the size issue with the location bar they'll look even smaller vertically - see the other screenshot
Created attachment 232951
screenshot without the location bar on the toolbar

there's no location bar on the toolbar this time, so the buttons are smaller (only vertically).
(In reply to comment #3)
> remove the location bar and the buttons get smaller (vertically). The location
> bar it too big. There is still much-too-much horizontal spacing between the
> buttons however.


For that I filed bug 348002.


For this, I unzipped my classic.jar and messed about in browser.css - removing the margins on the buttons when the icons are small. Now there's /no/ spacing between any of the buttons, and it doesn't look too bad. See the screenshot.

Anyone know where my clasic.jar -> browser.css would've been generated from in the source tree?

I think this should be OS -> All btw.

Oh crap, I just noticed you weren't just talking about small icons...
FWIW, in Firefox 1.5 there are no margins with small and large icons on.
Created attachment 233013
removes the margins on the small icons
Created attachment 233017
removes the margins from the icons
(In reply to comment #7)
> I think this should be OS -> All btw.

Actually Windows doesn't have the margins.
Comment on attachment 233017
removes the margins from the icons

Er, you need to request review for a patch, not grant review. :P

Just set the review flag to '?' and optionally put a reviewer.
Can someone test this for me on Windows to ensure that it doesn't impact Windows appearance?
Comment on attachment 233017
removes the margins from the icons

this patch kills all spacing on Windows, not so ok.
We have a problem...

I vote for reverting to the old theme :P
This should get worked out for beta in some fashion, even if it's a temporary workaround/hack of some sort. We can't break the Linux users this badly for something where we want to get as widespread testing as beta2.
Well, we needed the margins because we removed the "button" sort of look on win32, and they filled in the space, right?

The main problem on Linux is that the "search" button (the search bar right endcap) is the only button drawn without this "button" look.  All the others still  get that effect onhover.

I think if all the other buttons were made to draw like that search button does, this problem would just vanish.

Alternatively, if the "button" look is restored on win32, the margins will go away, and this problem should just fix itself.
Created attachment 233882
Simplify css for toolbar buttons, special case gtk2
(In reply to comment #17)
> Alternatively, if the "button" look is restored on win32, the margins will go
> away, and this problem should just fix itself.

Not quite true, depending on what you mean by "button" look. The hover effect is fixed by bug 347416, but the padding isn't (see bug 347416 comment 34).
Created attachment 233930
Simplify css for toolbar buttons, special case gtk2, v2
Comment on attachment 233930
Simplify css for toolbar buttons, special case gtk2, v2

r+a=me, thanks Michael!
Created attachment 233943
Simplify css for toolbar buttons, special case gtk2, v3
mozilla/browser/themes/winstripe/browser/jar.mn 	1.13.2.17
mozilla/browser/themes/winstripe/browser/browser.css 	1.17.2.34
mozilla/browser/themes/winstripe/browser/searchbar.css 	1.3.8.15
