Mac OS X icons have a washed-out look and are hard to see. This is a major usability problem and it doesn't look good.

Mac OS X icons have a washed-out look and are hard to see. This is a major usability problem and it doesn't look good.
Created attachment 233812
old toolbar pic
Created attachment 233813
new toolbar pic
I have posted a picture of the old toolbar and the new toolbar. Open them in browser windows side by side and compare. The new icons (bad) are very washed out compared to the old ones (good). Try putting the old back button right next to the new one, the difference is huge.
nominating, more polish is needed here.
Bug 347541?  I agree that this is a problem.  The standard state of the icons, especially back and forward, is difficult to see.  Especially after the updated icons from attachment 233516 (bug 345466 comment 76) landed and got rid of the gray disabled icons (bug 347467), it's harder to discern what's active, especially at some very comfortable LCD viewing angles.
Created attachment 233835
mockup: increased saturation, slight color shift
(In reply to comment #0)
> Mac OS X icons have a washed-out look and are hard to see. This is a major
> usability problem and it doesn't look good.
> 

I thought the same thing on Windows XP. Too washed out. I had to try and click to see if it was lit up or not. 

OS=All
This bug and bug 304893 say basically the same thing, although this one says it more in detail.
(In reply to comment #8)
> This bug and bug 304893 say basically the same thing, although this one says it
> more in detail.

No, bug 304893 is about the old theme, and this is about the new one.
fixed by new iconset, should be Monday's nightlies
I still think the back/forward buttons are too washed out (reload is better though). They should be closer to the state they are in when they hover. The top of the icon is still almost *white*.
I agree.  Back and forward are still "washed-out," and the disabled state for all buttons is still too gray and not OS X-like.
part of the problem with the look may be the hovering itself. perhaps if we lose the hover state this could improve the look of the icons?
(In reply to comment #13)
> part of the problem with the look may be the hovering itself. perhaps if we
> lose the hover state this could improve the look of the icons?

See the WONTFIXed bug 347399.


