For Beta 2, we will need to recreate the shipped-locales file for browser from scratch, according to the build and QA status for that release.

Should we just make that file empty to start off with the least possible chance for glitches?

For Beta 2, we will need to recreate the shipped-locales file for browser from scratch, according to the build and QA status for that release.

Should we just make that file empty to start off with the least possible chance for glitches?
(In reply to comment #0)

> Should we just make that file empty to start off with the least possible chance
> for glitches?

Sounds good to me; you want me to do that, and we can use this bug as a tracking bug for adding locales?


Yes, please.
Checking in shipped-locales;
/cvsroot/mozilla/browser/locales/Attic/shipped-locales,v  <--  shipped-locales
new revision: 1.1.4.2; previous revision: 1.1.4.1
done

en-US is the only thing that's left.
Created attachment 235466
tentative candidate for shipped-locales, everything we may want to ship

I've been a bit sloppy on today's check-ins by dietrich, so, for missing entities, I suggest to not ship be, he, hy-AM, ro, sq.
pt-BR doesn't have search at all, busted.
ga-IE and zh-CN are in trouble
Created attachment 235471
final candidate for Beta2 shipped-locales

Attached a new version of the shipped locales.  This is the same as Axel's version but added the OS specifiction for ja-JP-mac and ja.
Created attachment 235480
Patch above + a couple of changes for pa-IN/gu-IN

Same as timr's version, except pa-IN and gu-IN only ship for win32/linux (still)
Comment on attachment 235480
Patch above + a couple of changes for pa-IN/gu-IN

This is right.  I checked against my latest 150x shipped locales and there are no other ones with odd OS limitations.
Created attachment 236190
The official list of locales to release for Beta2
Comment on attachment 236190
The official list of locales to release for Beta2

>gu-IN win32 linux

As mentioned to preed on irc, make that

gu-IN linux

win32 is broken due to encoding problems in the installer.
> win32 is broken due to encoding problems in the installer.

I see the XML parsing error at start up on win32.  -> https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=351044

Is there another bug to be filed for the installer?
Beta 2 is out the door, this can be closed.
Quickly, quickly!

Gerv
Oops, sorry. Wrong bug for API test!

Gerv
Testingonly
