The bookmarks toolbar button turns blue when you click on it, to indicate the sidebar is open. The history toolbar button does not. The icon does not exist in Toolbar.png either.

The bookmarks toolbar button turns blue when you click on it, to indicate the sidebar is open. The history toolbar button does not. The icon does not exist in Toolbar.png either.
On Mac, I'm also not seeing any hover state for the history toolbar icon.
This all seems to be fixed now, please reopen if I misunderstood!
This isn't fixed, but it isn't a regression either - 1.5 also had this bug.
I guess this doesn't really belong on the blocker list, given that it existed in 1.5 too, but it would be nice to have Toolbar.png updated to include a "checked" state for the history icon.
This belongs on the blocker list as long as there is no way to distinguish between checked and not checked toolbarbuttons. Before the refresh, there was a border which appeared when a toolbarbutton was checked. Now, it is possible to have absolutely no visual indication. If we decide to bring those checked toolbarbutton borders back, then this bug won't matter so much.
We did bring the checked borders back, in bug 348442 and bug 352244.
We're adding the checked state for history. Looks like the Bookmarks checked state isn't displaying on Pinstripe even though it's in Toolbar.png (and History will be shortly). There is a dark gray background on Pinstripe behind them, so I guess it's not urgent, but it should be fixed at some point.

Michael: the bevels are back in the latest nightly :)
OK, I think I see what Michael is talking about. There is no "checked" indication on the history button with current branch builds, because the Linux native theming prevents the standard "checked" styling (different background, bevel) from taking effect. If you set -moz-appearance: none on a checked toolbarbutton using the DOM inspector, the styling appears.

That being said, I see exactly the same thing with Firefox 1.5 on the same machine, so as far as I can tell this still isn't a regression from 1.5.
I'd take a patch for this, but this isn't a regression, so minusing.

We at least have the image available now...
Created attachment 238162
patch
Comment on attachment 238162
patch

amazing what minusing will do! ;)
Created attachment 238163
real patch
mozilla/browser/themes/winstripe/browser/browser.css 	1.17.2.58

This still hasn't been fixed on the trunk, so I guess I'll leave this bug open for that.
