Dwayne and I chatted about this via mail, the South African locales have generally only partially translated pref dialogs, and there are English strings in other prominent parts of the UI, too, and we won't be able to fix that in time for 2.0.

Thus, we're targetting on 2.0(.0)?.1 for 

af, en-ZA, nr, nso, ss, st, tn, ts, ve, xh, zu.

Dwayne, if you'd confirm this in a comment, I'll move this bug over to Firefox Build Config to actually get that changed in shipped-locales.

Dwayne and I chatted about this via mail, the South African locales have generally only partially translated pref dialogs, and there are English strings in other prominent parts of the UI, too, and we won't be able to fix that in time for 2.0.

Thus, we're targetting on 2.0(.0)?.1 for 

af, en-ZA, nr, nso, ss, st, tn, ts, ve, xh, zu.

Dwayne, if you'd confirm this in a comment, I'll move this bug over to Firefox Build Config to actually get that changed in shipped-locales.
Sorry, should have told QA about this earlier.
So, should I pull all these locales from the downloads page?
We should pull them when we pull them, IMHO, which is likely not going to happen before RC2. That's the reason why we have the shipped-locales file.
(In reply to comment #0)
> Thus, we're targetting on 2.0(.0)?.1 for 
> 
> af, en-ZA, nr, nso, ss, st, tn, ts, ve, xh, zu.
> 
> Dwayne, if you'd confirm this in a comment, I'll move this bug over to Firefox
> Build Config to actually get that changed in shipped-locales.

Just to confirm as Axel requested.  We have talked about this and agree that the user experience is not good enough for now.  We will relook at inclusion for a minor point release in the future.
Over to Firefox Build Config, I'll attach a patch to shipped-locales, too.
Created attachment 240328
remove ZA locales from shipped-locales
Comment on attachment 240328
remove ZA locales from shipped-locales

Requesting approval to remove the south african locales from our list of shipping locales.

Their translation coverage is just not as good as we'd want this for a Firefox release.
Checked in, branch only.

Checking in shipped-locales;
/cvsroot/mozilla/browser/locales/Attic/shipped-locales,v  <--  shipped-locales
new revision: 1.1.4.8; previous revision: 1.1.4.7
done
