This is the tracking bug for locales that did not make the cut for 2.0.

This is the tracking bug for locales that did not make the cut for 2.0.
... the tracking bug for the ones that do make 2.0 is bug 350031, taking QA to remove bugspam. If folks want to watch this bug that generally watch general@firefox.bugs, please CC yourself individually.
Moving locales that won't make 2.0.0.1 from this bug over to bug 362224.
Axel: are you done with this bug now? mozilla.com's of the opinion that he has shipped 2.0.0.1, and with 2.0.0.2 days away I doubt pa-IN's going to catch 2.0.0.1.
Phil, I'm trying to resolve the dependent bugs first, pa-IN is actually out of the door, and the hebrew bugs still need some comments, though they should be good as well.
Moving to a more appropriate tracking Product/Component (and one where I don't have a query for bogus moves of actual bugs without reassigning the QA contact).
(In reply to comment #5)
> Moving to a more appropriate tracking Product/Component (and one where I don't
> have a query for bogus moves of actual bugs without reassigning the QA
> contact).
> 

That comment doesn't make any sense to me. And I don't think that this component change is right.
Fine, whatever. We use component-specific default QA contacts to track bugs by component, and people quite often move a bug to a different component but fail to reassign it, so that people watching the new component never see it, so I have a saved-query and whine to let me reassign them properly. This bug, which tracks shipping a release which has long, long since left the building, is one of three open bugs in the Firefox product which does not have the default QA contact, but, whatever. I've been seeing it every single day for months, I can see it every single day for years.
(In reply to comment #1)
> ... the tracking bug for the ones that do make 2.0 is bug 350031, taking QA to
> remove bugspam. If folks want to watch this bug that generally watch
> general@firefox.bugs, please CC yourself individually.

I suspect few people watch general@firefox.bugs, and those that do won't be "spammed" by a single, non-bogus bug. I think you should reset the QA contact to general@firefox.bugs, and save Phil some trouble :)
