Kurdish (ku) and Georgian (ka) are ready to get built, I'll attach a patch to all-locales right away.

Kurdish (ku) and Georgian (ka) are ready to get built, I'll attach a patch to all-locales right away.
Created attachment 245625
add ka and ku to all-locales
than was good news for ka and ku :D
but who gonna do that?
amed, whoever takes responsibility about fixing an issue tracked in bugzilla is assigning a bug to himself/herself. As I have entered myself as assignee of this bug, I took over of doing that work.
Comment on attachment 245625
add ka and ku to all-locales

Welcome!
(In reply to comment #2)
> than was good news for ka and ku :D
> but who gonna do that?
that's politics... we just trying to split ko & ja
Comment on attachment 245625
add ka and ku to all-locales

Fixed on the trunk, now we should turn them on on the branch, too, so that we can work towards release.

Requesting approval1.8.1.1 for a basically-NPOB check-in to all-locales.
Comment on attachment 245625
add ka and ku to all-locales

Self-approving the addition of Georgian (ka) and Kurdish (ku) to the build on the branch.

Other drivers had enough time and chances to turn this request down, and we need the builds to make further decisions.
FIXED, both builds are cycling now, but both are orange or red.

Please see http://tinderbox.mozilla.org/showbuilds.cgi?tree=Mozilla1.8-l10n-ka and http://tinderbox.mozilla.org/showbuilds.cgi?tree=Mozilla1.8-l10n-ku for details, I hope that http://people.mozilla.com/~axel/status-1.8/ will catch up on the next run, but I won't stay up for that (even though it's just 40 minutes away, and I'll probably be awake, I'll switch off work by then).

Remaining issues should be tracked in the individual builds.
Hi everyone, my apologies first off if this is not the correct place to post this.
I would like to contribute to the Kurdish local, but couldnt find any material on how or where, any one got any links on where to start witht his.
I run a number of Kurdish websites and I would like to allow my visitors to be able to download a Kurdish version so I am putting up my time to make sure my visitors can download a Kurdish version.
I am a software engineer by profession so am not sure how that will come in handy but just looking for any information on how to contribute/get started.
thank you all
