Some platform/locale combinations do not exist (for example, ja on the mac).  After some discussion between rhelmer and I, we've decided to make the repack script only warn (on stderr) and not attempt a repack when these builds aren't found.

Some platform/locale combinations do not exist (for example, ja on the mac).  After some discussion between rhelmer and I, we've decided to make the repack script only warn (on stderr) and not attempt a repack when these builds aren't found.
Created attachment 249196
Repack one platform at a time, skip missing ones

Note that this also removes the DOWNLOAD_FILES option and hardcodes it along with the mapping between them and PLATFORMS.  We should perhaps move to a more generic solution later, though I don't expect this to be a problem now.
I should also point out, this patch changes the syntax of the PLATFORMS variable to be space-delimited, instead of comma-delimited, for easier (read: sans-awk) usage in bash.

This impacts old repacks, but a) the changes have a low impact (it's trivial to change conf.sh to fix this), and b) we should start tagging the common directory and the partner files from now on and to make sure we use a matching set.
Comment on attachment 249196
Repack one platform at a time, skip missing ones

Looks great, thanks!
Checking in Repack.sh;
/mofo/repackage/common/Attic/Repack.sh,v  <--  Repack.sh
new revision: 1.1.2.3; previous revision: 1.1.2.2
done

Created attachment 249309
do not exit on error (no "set -e")

do not use set -e. Also, make curl silent if no errors (-s) and remove verbose. This makes it so we can run repack like:

common/Repack.sh > output.log

and only see console output if there are errors.
Comment on attachment 249309
do not exit on error (no "set -e")

There is an extraneous debugging line:

+                echo "here"

That should be removed.  Also, I'm not sure if removing the "set -v" is needed, but I leave it up to you to decide.

Patch approved otherwise.
Removed the "echo" debug line, thanks :) 
The "set -v" was removed so I can redirect the stdout to a logfile without having anything but errors on stderr, it can be turned on for debugging.

Landed:
Checking in Repack.sh;
/mofo/repackage/common/Attic/Repack.sh,v  <--  Repack.sh
new revision: 1.1.2.4; previous revision: 1.1.2.3
done

