mockup in the bug URL, contains the list of smart folders. the smart folders are in bug 385826.

mockup in the bug URL, contains the list of smart folders. the smart folders are in bug 385826.
mconnor and I think that the pre-populated smart folders should appear in the bookmarks toolbar, not in the bookmarks menu.  Created bug 387996.
(In reply to comment #1)
> mconnor and I think that the pre-populated smart folders should appear in the
> bookmarks toolbar, not in the bookmarks menu.  Created bug 387996.
> 

alex, this bug *was* for the bookmarks toolbar. i assume you meant the other way around? ;)

what's the reasoning behind moving this to the menu?
Yeah, I meant the other way around.  The reasoning behind moving this to the menu is to reduce the complexity of primary UI.

> The reasoning behind moving this to the
> menu is to reduce the complexity of primary UI.

In the hierarchy thread, we talked about how the menu is designed for items that are filed away (as opposed to starred) for occasional access. Given this intent for the menu, it doesn't sound like the right place for the pre-prepared smart folders which provide dynamic views of recent activity or other targeted views of high value.

Also in that thread we talked about how menu use is likely to decrease due to the emphasis on starring and search, which if true, would make these harder to discover.

Finally, one of the most requested features during the "feature discussions" was a "smart toolbar" that bubbled up most-used bookmarks, or was otherwise smart about it's contents. These smart folders are pretty close to providing that feature (and go beyond it in some ways). I haven't yet heard any requests for a dynamic menu, which is surprising given that the history menu basically works that way. Well, that may be because the toolbar was a more obvious choice for those users that keep it visible.

What was the specific concern about complexity? How was the complexity increase in the primary UI determined? IMHO, moving this folder to the menu given the reasons above seems like an inequitable trade-off.

All those points seem reasonable.

I personally don't have too strong of an opinion either way.  If we wanted to have this in the toolbar, then I think we should potentially remove the "latest headlines" live bookmark so that the bookmarks toolbar still initially appears somewhat sparse.

Unless the Mikes disagree, I propose we put the folder in both locations (menu and toolbar) for the betas, and try to get some feedback on where people would like it.
taking, per discussion with Dietrich.
the patch for this is included in bug #387996
fixed along with bug #387996
Bug 451915 - move Firefox/Places bugs to Firefox/Bookmarks and History. Remove all bugspam from this move by filtering for the string "places-to-b-and-h".

In Thunderbird 3.0b, you do that as follows:
Tools | Message Filters
Make sure the correct account is selected. Click "New"
Conditions: Body   contains   places-to-b-and-h
Change the action to "Delete Message".
Select "Manually Run" from the dropdown at the top.
Click OK.

Select the filter in the list, make sure "Inbox" is selected at the bottom, and click "Run Now". This should delete all the bugspam. You can then delete the filter.

Gerv
