Same as bug 489047, but for Firefox.
I don't have a Mac, so I'm not the best person to do this...

Same as bug 489047, but for Firefox.
I don't have a Mac, so I'm not the best person to do this...
Created attachment 374985
Fix

I wish people would stop saying "I'd do it, but I don't have a Mac" since one of my arguments for taking the (pref-triggered part of) the patch is that it lets people without a Mac see what they are doing to the sheet-panel.
Sure, but you originally wrote the pref-triggered part of this in bug 490282, which you filed a couple of days after I filed this bug...
> Sure, but you originally wrote the pref-triggered part of this in bug 490282,
> which you filed a couple of days after I filed this bug...

That's not an excuse since all that Phil did was to port my changes in Bug 406780 to Thunderbird (and the reason I went with the dynamic pref control was that I didn't have a Mac) and you could just have done the same.
I haven't seen that bug either. And sorry for attributing your idea as Phil's.

Next time I file a Mac bug, I'll ask for hints on how to do this without a Mac instead...
Nah, the secret is to put them on the defensive instead. "The Steve Jobs fanboys need to stop cluttering up browser/ code with their 'oh, my customize dialog must look just like Steve's precious ones' defines and use the copy in toolkit instead. I'd do it, but I can't stand to touch their 'oh, we're so much prettier than you' code." ;)

is it foreseen that this patch makes it into Fx 3.5?  it makes a big difference to my extension, totaltoolbar, in upgrading to 3.5 compatibility.
Beta 4 was the last beta, and you should be able to use that when updating your extension. Basically, if this patch breaks compatibility, then it's not a candidate for 3.5. Besides, it's probably not useful to take this for 3.5 anyway, since it's more of a maintenance thing rather than fixing something that's broken.
Comment on attachment 374985
Fix

r=mano
http://hg.mozilla.org/mozilla-central/rev/2103cf22598c
