The default theme has no border between the titlebar and toolbars. If you apply a lightweight theme then there still is no border between them. After opening a new window there is a border between the two. I suspect having the border is best if we aren't altering the titlebar colour but whichever we should be consistent.

The default theme has no border between the titlebar and toolbars. If you apply a lightweight theme then there still is no border between them. After opening a new window there is a border between the two. I suspect having the border is best if we aren't altering the titlebar colour but whichever we should be consistent.
Created attachment 401454
screenshot the first time you apply a lightweight theme
Created attachment 401455
screenshot after opening a new window
dave, how do apply a lightweight test theme here?   Do you have a testcase i can use to play with?   Thanks.
If you need to test before installation support has landed then I guess you can use the hack in bug 510909 comment 39
This is similar to bug 461291 and a general problem with the unified titlebar drawing setup. In order to construct the right gradient in the titlebar, the window needs to know the height of the toolbar. But it only gets notified about changes in the toolbar height while the toolbar gradient is being drawn. But if the toolbar suddenly gets invisible, or if a lightweight theme replaces -moz-appearance: -moz-mac-unified-toolbar, it won't be drawn, so it can't notify the window about a change in height.
(In reply to comment #3)
> dave, how do apply a lightweight test theme here?   Do you have a testcase i
> can use to play with?   Thanks.

Tony, if you still need a test site while we wait for getpersonas.com to support the native browser using the gallery (bug 518806), you can use this page:

http://people.mozilla.org/~johnath/tmp/personatest.html

It's just a slight modification of one of Dao's test cases, but it works. (You'll need to edit the permissions in Page Info to trust people.mozilla.org to install Themes/Extensions if you want preview-on-hover to work).
The patch in bug 461291 fixes this.
Can this be closed?
Yes.
