TabCandy should be per-window (there are strange bugs about opening a new window and having that window appears as a tab in TabCandy, which can't be closed or switched to)

TabCandy should be per-window (there are strange bugs about opening a new window and having that window appears as a tab in TabCandy, which can't be closed or switched to)
I just pushed some good progress on this front. What remains is to make the tab candy button work on multiple windows. Also, the tab/group storage needs to happen on a window-by-window basis (otherwise each window overwrites the others).
How is it not window-specific right now?  Shouldn't each window have its own instance of the js objects, etc?

One thing that I think tabcandy needs to handle somehow is tabs moving between windows (and being torn off.)
This is a really serious issue! I lost a couple of tabs some minutes ago when I tried to open a new window. A tab from the former window has been automatically transfered to the new window but it's tab wasn't shown in the tabbar. After hitting Cmd+T a new tab opens and my formerly tab has been killed. There is no way to retrieve this lost tab. To make matters worse it was a really  long review comment. :(

I will turn-off TabCandy until this bug has been fixed. I don't wanna have another situation when tabs get destroyed.
Ehsan, we had code that was watching every window in the system. I've removed the bulk of it, but there are still some assumptions left. The big one being that the data files overwrite each other. Perhaps this won't be an issue with sessionstore? 

Henrik, sorry about that! We're working on the fix. By the way, something that sometimes works to restore tabs is to close Tab Candy (by going to the Tab Candy screen and hitting command+w).
Ian, so ESC is different from Cmd+W? If not I did that a couple of times without an effect.
Yes, esc takes you away from TabCandy, but doesn't actually shut it down. Command+w on the TabCandy window will shut TabCandy down, which should restore all of the tabs in your tab bar.
(In reply to comment #4)
> Ehsan, we had code that was watching every window in the system. I've removed
> the bulk of it, but there are still some assumptions left. The big one being
> that the data files overwrite each other. Perhaps this won't be an issue with
> sessionstore? 

Session store basically enables you to persist information per window and per tab, so yes, it helps you to not mix up your information, and it takes care of writing the data from all windows and all tabs correctly.  Trying to write data from multiple windows on the same file is bound to lead to disaster.  :-)
So theoretically your patch has this fixed already?
As of changelist 497486eceee2, I've verified that you can create one TabCandy for each window, and you can drag and drop tabs between them from the tabbar (we do not yet support dragging and dropping tabs between TabCandies).

As far as I know, the remaining issue here is the datastore, which hopefully Ehsan's patch will take care of.
And now the data store is fixed, with change 141b8715db
Mass moving all Tab Candy bugs from Mozilla Labs to Firefox::Tab Candy.  Filter the bugmail spam with "tabcandymassmove".
