This might sound silly, but I think Chrome seems more open sourcey than we do in the two about windows.

by my count:

=chrome=
"copyright" (1)
"all rights reserved" (1)
"open source" (2)

=firefox=
"copyright" (1)
"all rights reserved" (1)
"trademark" (1)

so by comparison they are +2 open source

This might sound silly, but I think Chrome seems more open sourcey than we do in the two about windows.

by my count:

=chrome=
"copyright" (1)
"all rights reserved" (1)
"open source" (2)

=firefox=
"copyright" (1)
"all rights reserved" (1)
"trademark" (1)

so by comparison they are +2 open source
Created attachment 450555
About windows

They get bonus points for dropping in the PBS phrase "made possible" makes me feel all warm and fuzzy inside just reading it.
Alex: you're right, it's a little silly, but I'm inclined to agree that these things matter in the aggregate. Your scoring seems somewhat arbitrary, but I guess it's all subjective ;)

I'm curious to know why Chrome doesn't need to assert trademark over its logos and name, yet we do. Also curious to know if "All rights reserved" is one of those things we have to put in there, or one of those things that's in there because everybody puts it in there and nobody remembers why.

At any rate, I'd be happy to think about how to rephrase this so that it meets requirements and yet sounds more ... human. Perhaps something like:

Firefox 4
v4.0.0 <updated date here>

This is free and open software built by the _Mozilla Project_, _know your rights_.
(c) 1998-2000 by our contributors, under _various licenses_. Firefox and the Firefox logos are trademarks of the Mozilla Foundation. Some of the trademarks used under license from The Charlton Company.

A little wordy, but a little friendlier, IMO.
As discussed in other bugs, I think we've already decided to remove the copyright notice from the Firefox 4 About window. Taking off my legal hat and putting on my user hat, I agree we could do a better job in that window of acknowledging we are open source and built by contributors. This is also where we've talking about adding the link to the privacy policy. How's this?

This is free and open software built by contributors (insert link to about:credits) to the _Mozilla Project_, who provide their code under _various open source licenses_. 

There is no end user license agreement for Firefox, it is made available to you under the MPL. Learn about your user rights (link to about:rights) and our privacy policy (link to Firefox privacy policy). 

Firefox and the Firefox logos are trademarks of the Mozilla Foundation. Some of the trademarks used under license from The Charlton Company.
What if we started with a very short statement about why Firefox exists, why it is important.  This is taking "about" pretty literally, but really nowhere in the product do we ever mention our literal mission.

"Firefox is made possible by a global community of contributors to ensure that the Web remains a free and open platform.

There is no end user license agreement for Firefox, it is made available to you
under the MPL. Learn about your user rights (link to about:rights) and our
privacy policy (link to Firefox privacy policy). 

Firefox and the Firefox logos are trademarks of the Mozilla Foundation. Some of
the trademarks used under license from The Charlton Company."
Mmm. So many words.
I just want them to be happy words, care less about the length.  On the topic of positive prose, filed follow up bug 571584 about our Miranda install
Mike, 
Agree with you. We don't need the copyright statement (not required for damages under berne copyright convention anymore) or the all rights reserved statement.
If you want to do something nicer as Alex has suggested, please do. It would be a better use of the space.  
/hja
Gavin points out that this is already done on trunk, too in bug 536336 - awesome!
(In reply to comment #4)
I really think that the first sentence of Alex is the one that could help users answering "why Firefox is better? Why should I use it more than Chrome/IE/Safari ?".
But I've experienced (whe installing Fx for newbies) that "Open platform" "oppotunities on the web" are too technical/abstract to make understand that the ethic impact the day-to-day real life : Maybe we should give some practical and short exemples (I've 2 in mind : html5/video & Popcorn [subtitles] and browser on phones/mobile devices, but maybe you've got some more/better).

Just a too wordy exemple, hack it ;-)
> "Firefox is made possible by a global community of contributors to ensure that
> the Web remains a free and open platform.
Firefox is made possible by a global community of contributors to ensure that the Web remains a free and open platform that/to enhance your web experience, such as giving you the freedom to use it in any device : your phone or anything nice that the future will prompt.

Instead of "your web experience" we could maybe say "the possibilities provided by the web" or "make the web better for you".

It could be nice too to add a link on "free and open platform" to a web page as an entrance door to the freesoftware/open source world. I first think about the Organic one : http://www.mozilla.com/en/firefox/organic/ (or maybe to http://www.mozilla-europe.org/en/firefox/organic/ as it more localized, aka, try french on both, only the last one work right)

I've thought about this changes, because the about window is now the home for the update so it should be viewed a little bit more.
> 
> There is no end user license agreement for Firefox, it is made available to you
> under the MPL. Learn about your user rights (link to about:rights) and our
> privacy policy (link to Firefox privacy policy). 
> 
> Firefox and the Firefox logos are trademarks of the Mozilla Foundation. Some of
> the trademarks used under license from The Charlton Company."
Not sure if the whiteboard [to be fixed by 579547] mean that this is adressed by 579547 or if this will be fixed as soon as 579547 RESOLVED FIXED : so I dup part of my comment to 579547.
Fixed by bug 579547.
