Created attachment 454918
enlarged screenshot of firefox menu sitting too high on window frame

The new Firefox menu sits one pixel too high in the toolbar giving it the appearance of wrapping over the top of the window. 

I think that the button's top (and maybe the bottom?) should align with the window frame border at the same place as the windows min/restore/close control group.

Created attachment 454918
enlarged screenshot of firefox menu sitting too high on window frame

The new Firefox menu sits one pixel too high in the toolbar giving it the appearance of wrapping over the top of the window. 

I think that the button's top (and maybe the bottom?) should align with the window frame border at the same place as the windows min/restore/close control group.
actually, I think it's two pixels too high.
This bug is duplicate of bug 574681.
(In reply to comment #2)
> This bug is duplicate of bug 574681.

No.
Yes:
https://bug574681.bugzilla.mozilla.org/attachment.cgi?id=454921
Bug 574681 mixes various things, whereas this one is very clear and well-scoped.
So what, we are going to fill seperate bugs for every small glitch we found?
Well, if that gets a specific bug fixed faster, then yeah.
You know what means "effective work"? It surely isn't asking reviews for three patches for three small glitches, instead of asking one review for one patch that will cover all three of 'em.
Please avoid making comments that don't help moving this bug along.
Created attachment 455096
patch
Created attachment 455164
window that looks right

I'm not seeing this on a nightly build w/a slightly different ui setup.
The window captions show they're light line below the black border.  The menu button doesn't look the same.  It looks like its hanging rather than inside the window border.
http://hg.mozilla.org/mozilla-central/rev/e0c61d38cb26
=\ it still looks too high.
http://people.mozilla.com/~faaborg/files/20100625-tabsOnTop/mouseBounce.png
Target Mileston is Firefox 4.0b2, not 3.7b2.
I think it should only be 1 pixel lower instead of 2. Otherwise it leaves a white line (part of the Aero window border) on top of the minefield button and makes it look tacky, especially when you click on it. White doesn't contrast well as a border color with orange.
(In reply to comment #16)
> I think it should only be 1 pixel lower instead of 2. Otherwise it leaves a
> white line (part of the Aero window border) on top of the minefield button and
> makes it look tacky, especially when you click on it. White doesn't contrast
> well as a border color with orange.

I think the design in comment 14 makes the most sense, just keep it orange, but that's discussion for another bug.
(In reply to comment #17)
> (In reply to comment #16)
> I think the design in comment 14 makes the most sense, just keep it orange, but
> that's discussion for another bug.

I meant that there's a gap between the Firefox button and the window frame. The white aero window border is showing through when really the Firefox button should be on top of it. I'm fine with making the button larger, but the border should not be showing. It should look like the button is a puzzle piece that fits into a cut out piece of the window.
Created attachment 455492
White line above button

Now there's a white line above the firefox button, it should look like the caption button.
:D Instead of fixing it, we reversed it. Cool. ;)
The margin should be reduced to 1px (instead of 2) and the height should be increased by 1px.
(In reply to comment #21)
> The margin should be reduced to 1px (instead of 2) and the height should be
> increased by 1px.

Yes the top of the button should be inline with the white edge of the window not the dark border.
Er, didn't you meant direct oposite? Dark edge is outer one, not the white edge.
Created attachment 455501
Firefox Button

(In reply to comment #23)
> Er, didn't you meant direct oposite? Dark edge is outer one, not the white
> edge.

I don't think I did, but I might need more coffee :) The top of the button should line up with the white edge and not the dark border.

Or rather it should look like this attachment. So 1px down not 2px.
Ah yes, I din't notice that dark line on mokcup. My bad. :)
Created attachment 455503
look at me!

Compare the current one to the mockups. We seem to be missing a bit of detail.
(In reply to comment #26)
> Created an attachment (id=455503) [details]
> look at me!
> 
> Compare the current one to the mockups. We seem to be missing a bit of detail.

That is probably a separate bug and if it isn't it will be.
You mean bug 574681?
Created attachment 463304
Problem still occurring in Firefox 4 beta 3

I'm still seeing this problem in Firefox 4 beta 3.

1. Install Firefox 4 beta 3 with a new profile.
2. When Firefox launches after the install, notice that the Fx button is too high.

The problem disappears after closing the "make this your default browser" popup (see lower half of screenshot), or just by using the browser for awhile. It only occurs on a clean install of Firefox.
