There is no border between the browser content area and the add-ons bar.  This is only an issue if the content background color is similar to the add-ons bar background color.

I added the following to my userChrome.css file which seems to work, but I am not sure this is the correct element to put the border on.  I am also not sure if this should just go into browser.css or seperately in each theme.

#browser-bottombox {
  border-top: 1px solid rgb(184, 173, 157) !important;
}

There is no border between the browser content area and the add-ons bar.  This is only an issue if the content background color is similar to the add-ons bar background color.

I added the following to my userChrome.css file which seems to work, but I am not sure this is the correct element to put the border on.  I am also not sure if this should just go into browser.css or seperately in each theme.

#browser-bottombox {
  border-top: 1px solid rgb(184, 173, 157) !important;
}
With your code after that you activate the findbar there is a 2px border-top. Try this, it works well:

#addon-bar,
#FindToolbar {
  -moz-appearance: none !important;
  border: 0 !important;
  border-top: 1px solid ThreedShadow !important;
}

statusbar {
  background: none !important;
  margin-top: 0 !important;
}
I think this issue will be fixed by bug 588764.
Do you know if the addon bar will be completely glassy?
(In reply to comment #2)
> I think this issue will be fixed by bug 588764.

That's fixed now, and looks fixed for me in the latest nightly. Is it fixed for you?
Created attachment 500075
screenshot
Doesn't look fixed in 20101228 build (win7, clean profile), see the "screenshot" attachment
Created attachment 508218
patch

This fixes it for Windows and Linux. Mac is already using -moz-appearance: statusbar; (bug 616017).
(In reply to comment #7)
> Created attachment 508218 [details]
> patch
> 
> This fixes it for Windows and Linux. Mac is already using -moz-appearance:
> statusbar; (bug 616017).

This looks fine under Windows.  Under Linux, the border between the addons-bar and content is still not as distinctive as the border between the find-bar and content.

The find-bar top border is defined as:

  border-top: 2px solid;
  -moz-border-top-colors: ThreeDShadow ThreeDHighlight;
I should have mentioned, that I am not advocating for either of these to be correct.  It just seems to me that this is both the same case.  whatever chrome toolbar abuts the content at the bottom, the border should be the same.  SO whatever the correct design here is, it needs to be both the top border for the addon-bar and the find-bar.
We don't want to copy the find bar here, and I don't want to change the look of the find bar here either. Please file a new bug on that.
Comment on attachment 508218
patch

looks good, thanks for polishing this.

i'm not sure that the two bars need to be consistent either. the find bar is transient UI*, so the border needs to be more distinctive so the user can quickly pick it out, whereas the add-on bar is always in the same place.

(* my wife leaves the find bar open for weeks at a time. we should do a Test Pilot study on how often it's left open :P)
http://hg.mozilla.org/mozilla-central/rev/ba3fe7ee56b9
Is this issue really fixed in Linux?

I can't find a Nightly where there's a visible border between the browser content and the Add-on bar.
Created attachment 537277
Addon bar and addon manager open. There is no separating line between them.
Created attachment 537278
Sample HTML that tries to mimic the addon bar CSS.

This CSS is found in omni.jar/chrome/browser/skin/classic/browser/browser.css#addon-bar . In the page, this CSS definition seems to have a border on top (shadow). But the real addon bar seems not to have it.
