We currently have two bottom bars that have different visual styles.  Particularly on Windows this looks unintentional, with one being a light grey, and the other blue.

We currently have two bottom bars that have different visual styles.  Particularly on Windows this looks unintentional, with one being a light grey, and the other blue.
*** Bug 631884 has been marked as a duplicate of this bug. ***
Created attachment 510566
patch

This takes care of Aero Glass only, as this is the most obvious case. Alex, can you please file individual bugs with more concrete suggestions per platform?
When I talked to Shorlander I was under the impression that the find bar should be visually distinct from the add-on bar on purpose, as the addon-bar is part of the browser UI and the find bar is attached to the content.
Comment on attachment 510566
patch

The gradient tones on the addonbar changes when the find bar is open because it stretches more (being part of the browser-bottombox background). Is it possible to avoid that?
The 20px is supposed to ensure it doesn't stretch:
    background-image: -moz-linear-gradient(@toolbarHighlight@, rgba(255,255,255,0) 20px);

But maybe it actually should stretch?
Another option might be:

background-image: -moz-linear-gradient(bottom, rgba(255,255,255,0), @toolbarHighlight@ 20px);
Comment on attachment 510566
patch

Yeah starting from the bottom works much better. r+ with that.

I believe it really shouldn't stretch, because it goes against the calm UI, and it would get worse if we style the Sync notifications in the same way (I'll file a bug similar to this one for the Sync UI because I think we really need it).

Alex, can you take a look on comment 3?
>When I talked to Shorlander I was under the impression that the find bar should
>be visually distinct from the add-on bar on purpose, as the addon-bar is part
>of the browser UI and the find bar is attached to the content.

If we were going for an obvious browser level/tab level distinction (like having the add-ons bar consisting of frosted glass), then making them distinct would make sense.  But if both are just styled like toolbars, I think having two different visual styles ends up looking like a mistake.  cc'ing shorlander for his opinion.
(In reply to comment #3)
> When I talked to Shorlander I was under the impression that the find bar should
> be visually distinct from the add-on bar on purpose, as the addon-bar is part
> of the browser UI and the find bar is attached to the content.

I don't think the find bar is more attachted to the content than the addon-bar. Many add-ons like Adblock Plus, Stylish, NoScript, Greasemonkey etc. are clearly attached to the current tab, exactly as the find bar is.

Additionally, everybody knows the find bar is part of the browser UI and not part of the page content, so it should look like a browser toolbar, too.
Created attachment 511349
patch

with the change from comment 6
My proposed alternative style for Windows is now up here:

http://areweprettyyet.com/4/mainWindow/#bottombars

still debating the design with shorlander and beltzner though.  When users visually focus directly on the close buttons, it should be reasonably clear that there are two different rows, both due to the small horizontal line, and due to the gestalt principle of proximity (although we might need to increase the white space between the two rows a bit more before that effect is strong enough).
Comment on attachment 511349
patch

I know Stephen and Alex have been thinking of how to solve this, so want them to give it UI blessing before approving.
Stephen has some newer mockups now than the one in comment #11
Comment on attachment 511349
patch

This is pretty close to what I had in mind. Can the separator be more subtle? Also we should do the same flat and consistent toolbar treatment for XP. I will attach a mockup.
Created attachment 512872
Bottom Bars

- Flat toolbar color
- Subtle toolbar separator
Created attachment 513435
work in progress

This is entirely untested, it may not work at all.
Created attachment 513436
work in progress

(still not tested)
This will update the style for the Sync error bar as well, right?
Please fix this sooner.
Created attachment 563141
patch
https://hg.mozilla.org/mozilla-central/rev/ceb9e5cad736
