I used Nightly to download the FF8 installer on Windows 7 x86_64, then closed Nightly, but clicked on the "Downloads Finished" tab that appeared. This made it look as if Nightly has exited, and I launched the installer.

When the installer finished, it gave me an option to "Launch Firefox", which I selected. Pressing the "Next" button then caused the installer to hang with a "(Not Responding)" in the titlebar. Windows popped up a dialog asking if I would like to terminate the dead program.

Instead of terminating the program, I pressed alt+tab, which revealed a messagebox saying "Firefox is already running [OK]". It was hidden by the installer, which looked very dead. Pressing OK brought the installer back to life, and it exited.

We should handle the already-running case gracefully.

I used Nightly to download the FF8 installer on Windows 7 x86_64, then closed Nightly, but clicked on the "Downloads Finished" tab that appeared. This made it look as if Nightly has exited, and I launched the installer.

When the installer finished, it gave me an option to "Launch Firefox", which I selected. Pressing the "Next" button then caused the installer to hang with a "(Not Responding)" in the titlebar. Windows popped up a dialog asking if I would like to terminate the dead program.

Instead of terminating the program, I pressed alt+tab, which revealed a messagebox saying "Firefox is already running [OK]". It was hidden by the installer, which looked very dead. Pressing OK brought the installer back to life, and it exited.

We should handle the already-running case gracefully.
I suspect that hiding the main UI before displaying the messagebox would fix this.
Created attachment 671134
Patch v1

As discussed in the stub installer bugs, this is due to the low integrity process window being lower in the z-order than the high integrity one, and the prompt coming from the low integrity one.  

As per the previous discussion, even if elevated to a different user, the prompt will show up on the same desktop and the FindWindow call that shows this UI will function correctly.

Doing a clobber at the moment, but will test this patch once that's done.
Tested with:
- admin users
- limited user accounts unelevated
- limited user accounts elevated

And it all works correctly.
When you click finish you get an error, but the installer is not dismissed. You have a chance to close firefox and click finish again.  I think this is wanted / expected though.
https://hg.mozilla.org/integration/mozilla-inbound/rev/3d4bf8eda40d
https://hg.mozilla.org/mozilla-central/rev/3d4bf8eda40d
