At some point, the progressmeter styles for winstripe and gnomestripe got overridden, and are no longer the native progress bar colour.

At some point, the progressmeter styles for winstripe and gnomestripe got overridden, and are no longer the native progress bar colour.
let's fix bug 746674 first, this should then be trivial.
we need to get some statistical guess on color vision disorders here, cause I think for example green is quite common problem, these users are going to see grey on grey. May be green on XP could end up not being a great decision.

See the Color accessibility section here
http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/windows/desktop/aa511283.aspx
and
http://developer.gnome.org/hig-book/2.32/hig-book.html#design-color

Feedback from a person suffering the problem would be valuable, so cc-ing john who has originally filed bug 746674.
Created attachment 681914
Comparison between Downloads Panel and native progressbar on Aero Basic

There current progressbar is an approximation of the native one. Zoom in the image and observe the white highlight. On the Panel the white highlight extends more than the middle of the progressbar and is also applied more strongly. Furthermore, there's a kind of white outline between the actual progressbar and the gray outline that reduces the actual height of the progressbar by two or three pixels.

Currently, the overabundance of white highlighting and the smaller size of the progressbar makes it a bit uncomfortable to see. Using the Aero progressbar unmolested would make the situation ideal.
That's just an height difference of the progress bar afaict, though, here we were discussing the small version of the progress bar, the one in the button.  And for that one we need to understand how to make it visible to you (now it's blue but we plan to change it to green). I think Mike will post screenshots and maybe you could help us figuring out how to choose the colors.

Is also the wide progress bar problematic? It's not any different than what has been for years in the download manager windows.
And yes, the white looks stronger, could be a bug in the native theming style code, I think we use the OS textures but could be we apply that texture twice.
Created attachment 681933
Proposed progressbar color

Gah, the title misled me. Maybe the bug should be renamed for clarity.

The current blue seems okay and it's a nice compromise. In any case, changing it to a light green without extreme glows, highlights or gradients should be okay for my case, like the quickly edited image I've attached, failing to find the place where the progressbar inherits the styles from in the code.
right the title was misleading, sorry.

So a light green should work, we'll likely ask for your feedback once we have a patch, thanks.
Created attachment 682101
Patch on Windows 7

What do you think of this, John?
Looks good for my case (deuteranopia). There's enough contrast between the green and the surrounding toolbar background so I doubt other cases will have problems either, though if you know someone else with mono/dichromacy it'd be nice if you got feedback from them too.
Created attachment 682126
WIP Patch 1

Ok, this takes care of Windows (I'll post an XP screenshot in a second).
Created attachment 682129
Patch on Windows XP
The original light-blue would be better for that beige toolbar (and the light-gray of Luna Silver) from a contrast standpoint and would mesh with the native blue progressbars better.
Created attachment 682135
WIP Patch 2

Ok, the gnomestripe progress bar is now orange. Screenshot coming.
Created attachment 682136
Patch on Ubuntu
(In reply to John Volikas from comment #12)
> The original light-blue would be better for that beige toolbar (and the
> light-gray of Luna Silver) from a contrast standpoint and would mesh with
> the native blue progressbars better.

Hrm - the progressbars on XP are natively green.

Marco - is it worth increasing the contrast on XP?
Comment on attachment 682136
Patch on Ubuntu

This shade presents a small problem for me, making it uncomfortable to look at due to how ambiguously the shade is interpreted. This results in slight vision blurring as I'm trying to focus on the number above. You should probably lighten the shade.
Created attachment 682160
Lighter shade on Ubuntu

Is this any better?
Comment on attachment 682160
Lighter shade on Ubuntu

This seems alright.
(In reply to Mike Conley (:mconley) from comment #15)
> Marco - is it worth increasing the contrast on XP?

I'm sorry, but I don't have an answer, John can tell better than me if it needs more contrast.
Green is indeed the correct color here. Changing the background of the progressbar to #5AC942 would be ideal.
(In reply to John Volikas from comment #20)
> Green is indeed the correct color here. Changing the background of the
> progressbar to #5AC942 would be ideal.

I mean the color of the progressbar itself, not the background.
Created attachment 682518
WIP Patch 3

Alright - keeping the lighter shade on Ubuntu, and regenerating Windows screenshots.
Created attachment 682529
Patch on Windows 7
Created attachment 682530
Patch on Windows XP
John:

How do these look?

-Mike
Everything seems to be in order in the screenshots. I see no issues personally.
Comment on attachment 682518
WIP Patch 3

(In reply to John Volikas from comment #26)
> Everything seems to be in order in the screenshots. I see no issues
> personally.

Cool - thanks John. Let's try rolling with this.
Comment on attachment 682518
WIP Patch 3

Review of attachment 682518:
-----------------------------------------------------------------

John, thank you very much for the help figuring out a good compromise.
Landed in mozilla-inbound as https://hg.mozilla.org/integration/mozilla-inbound/rev/15eaadc2cd9a
This was backed out while investigating a mess of orange that hit inbound all around the same time. It was re-landed once it was exonerated. Sorry for the churn.
https://hg.mozilla.org/integration/mozilla-inbound/rev/136511a07b72
https://hg.mozilla.org/mozilla-central/rev/136511a07b72
Created attachment 684259
New download progress on Linux

Is it necessary to hard-code Ubuntu specific colors? They look ugly on pretty much any non-Ubuntu system.

The default GNOME colors are mostly in the blue palette (with green and purple palettes available without installing anything additional).
