STR:

1) Shrink window so that bookmark button goes into overflow panel
2) Expand panel so you can see bookmark button again
3) Open bookmark edit panel
4) Opens in random spot

STR:

1) Shrink window so that bookmark button goes into overflow panel
2) Expand panel so you can see bookmark button again
3) Open bookmark edit panel
4) Opens in random spot
Screenshot: http://people.mozilla.com/~shorlander/bugs/Bug883141.png
is there an event one can listen for when the button moves from overflow to toolbar? Since we cache the anchor element and clear the cache on customization done, but here there is no customization notification incoming.
An alternative could be to just stop caching the anchor and calculating it every time, it would only be needed when opening the panel so may not be that bad after all.
derp.
fwiw I think this is fixed by my patch in bug 855805
Marco, do you mean fixed, as in when you click anywhere on the bookmark button inside the overflow-widget panel it opens the Library instead of the bookmark panel?

If that's the case, I can mark this bug as [fixed-in-ux]
(In reply to Mike de Boer [:mikedeboer] from comment #5)
> Marco, do you mean fixed, as in when you click anywhere on the bookmark
> button inside the overflow-widget panel it opens the Library instead of the
> bookmark panel?

well, if you click the Star it opens the bookmarking panel anchored to the overflow button.
Clicking the dropdown (that will become a different icon when the styling part lands) it will open the Library, cause doesn't make sense to open a popup in a popup and it doesn't execute a special operation like adding a bookmark or such.

so, I think we may consider this fixed, then if the interaction should be changed can be done as a polish step based on ux team feedback.
(In reply to Marco Bonardo [:mak] from comment #6)
> so, I think we may consider this fixed, then if the interaction should be
> changed can be done as a polish step based on ux team feedback.

Marking as fixed-in-ux. Please remove that whiteboard segment if you feel this was done in error.
