STR:
1) Start with a fresh profile and go into customization mode
2) Move the bookmark toolbar items from the bookmark toolbar to the left of the back button (first item in the nav-bar)
3) Leave customization mode

Expected:
Bookmarks appear the left of the back button

Actual:
Bookmark toolbar items don't appear anywhere.

This just happened after I updated to today's UX Nightly so I suspect the cause is bug 895938. I can repro in a new profile.

STR:
1) Start with a fresh profile and go into customization mode
2) Move the bookmark toolbar items from the bookmark toolbar to the left of the back button (first item in the nav-bar)
3) Leave customization mode

Expected:
Bookmarks appear the left of the back button

Actual:
Bookmark toolbar items don't appear anywhere.

This just happened after I updated to today's UX Nightly so I suspect the cause is bug 895938. I can repro in a new profile.
was that working before? I'm not sure why that position would be special, the item is definitely there.
Yes, I've had my toolbar like this since I started using the UX branch.
Honestly, I don't think I'll be able to look into this anytime "soon" (that means likely a couple weeks), though any part that required deeper Places knowledge should have been handled already, so I hope someone may just handle it as a UI bug. Otherwise I will look into it, when possible.
Please back out bug 895938, then.
(In reply to Jesse Ruderman from comment #4)
> Please back out bug 895938, then.

I don't see why, UX is an experimental project branch and this bug is a very edge case (the back button is the first one in the toolbar for a very good reason), we can live with it for a while, provided no one suggests a fix in the meanwhile (should not be that hard).
And moreover backing out things from a so quick moving project branch is more damaging than doing good, I had to unbitrot the same patches over and over in just a week.
(In reply to Marco Bonardo [:mak] (Away Aug 14-18) from comment #5)
> (In reply to Jesse Ruderman from comment #4)
> > Please back out bug 895938, then.
> 
> I don't see why, UX is an experimental project branch

It's only bad luck that it couldn't be merged to mozilla-central by now. You shouldn't assume it has a considerably lower quality bar.
(In reply to Dão Gottwald [:dao] from comment #7)
> It's only bad luck that it couldn't be merged to mozilla-central by now. You
> shouldn't assume it has a considerably lower quality bar.

I don't this this lowers the quality bar considerebly, it's still an edge case, I'd give the same answer in Nightly. It's surely something that should be fixed before merging to Aurora, that's it, imo.
Btw, I can take this now.
This bug isn't as edge-casey as comment 0 makes it sound.  It also happens with the bookmarks placed after the address bar.
the patch in bug 909729 should fix this
https://hg.mozilla.org/projects/ux/rev/8d12999288a9 (from bug 909729)
Created attachment 808268
Not quite what I wanted...
(In reply to Jesse Ruderman from comment #12)
> Created attachment 808268
> Not quite what I wanted...

Please file a separate bug with steps to reproduce, including how many bookmarks are in your bookmarks toolbar and whether or not it goes out of the overflow list if you make the window wider.
Other than that problem, which went away when I opened a new browser window, things seem to work.

I'll file a new bug if I can reproduce in a new profile.
By convention we have been keeping bugs in ASSIGNED state until the patches are merged to mozilla-central.
https://hg.mozilla.org/mozilla-central/rev/8d12999288a9
