Create a visual indicator that signifies that a method in a class overrides a 
method from a class it inherits from or impliments. 

The visual indicator could include a different color in the outline as well as 
a underlined method name in the editor (or something similar, perhaps it could 
be configurable). 

Right clicking the context menu over an overriden method will give you the 
option of opening the editor to the method that is overided.

Create a visual indicator that signifies that a method in a class overrides a 
method from a class it inherits from or impliments. 

The visual indicator could include a different color in the outline as well as 
a underlined method name in the editor (or something similar, perhaps it could 
be configurable). 

Right clicking the context menu over an overriden method will give you the 
option of opening the editor to the method that is overided.
there is an override indicator in the outliner and there is an open super 
action as well.
I see that the outline view does have a indicator when a method is overriden, 
however nothing is changed in the editor view. I think it would be nice to 
have the method name underlined or something similar (perhaps configurable) so 
when you are browsing code you can see something is overiding another method 
without looking away from the editor window.
can't commit to it for 2.0
Reopening for 2.1 consideration
I'd suggest a marker in the gutter where breakpoints go.  The indicator is much 
more useful if it's on the editor since it becomes very clear and stays in the 
main field of view.  I can't currently look at the outline and immediately know 
what methods are overriding/implementing.  It has the same effect as the 
error/warning indicators that are on the right side of the editor.  There is no 
way I can miss that I just introduced an error when I have a big red square in 
my face.
We are working on this.

*** Bug 55601 has been marked as a duplicate of this bug. ***
There are now override indicator annotations. Per default they are shown in the
vertical ruler.

Hover shows information and single-clicking jumps to the super implementation.



indicate overriden methods

