The JAR generation (Export) fails with a "no source" by deselecting the debug
value "Add source file name to generated class file (used by the debugger)".

[Prefs -> Java -> Compiler -> Classfile Generation -> "Add source file name to
generated class file (used by the debugger)"]

This happens untill Integration Build 20020312.

The JAR generation (Export) fails with a "no source" by deselecting the debug
value "Add source file name to generated class file (used by the debugger)".

[Prefs -> Java -> Compiler -> Classfile Generation -> "Add source file name to
generated class file (used by the debugger)"]

This happens untill Integration Build 20020312.
interesting... we need a fall back solution in the JAR exporter when the class 
file doesn't have the source file name.
It is currently not possible to get the class file names which correspond to a
.java file, see: bug 6584 for more info on this.

Would implement the following fallback:
Test some (small number of) files for each project
- if all are OK then proceed
- if one does not have the name inform the user about the problem and let him
choose to either export entire packages or cancel the export.
The JavaModel doesn't carry resolved information, such as corresponding 
classfiles. 

Now, I think that if you are missing the source debug attributes, the 
corresponding sources are of little value anyway (debugger won't attach them).
You're fallback solution sounds right to me.
This is a serious defect. Increasing priority to P2.
Fix will be in M5


Is the described fallback:

If the exporter detects a class file in folder X without the source name then it
exports all class files in that folder and shows a warning at the end of the
export operation.


Fixed > 20020401
Sorry, ;-(
already there in Nightly Build 20020402...

"Could not find source file attribute for: x:\...\...class
...
class file(s) on classpath not found or not accessible /.../...java
..."

Export result is a JAR without Class files (only resources).
I did not fully qualify the build ID sorry.
Fixed > I20020401


I have added an improvement today (>I20020402) which I think is what the user
wants: if the compiler option is unchecked (i.e. name not in class file) then I
do no longer warn the user about the missing name in a class file but only about
the fact that the whole directory was exported. I don't check if the user
selected all files and hence the message could be ignored.




JAR generation fails by deselecting debug value



Improved bug fix for 11220 

Fixed bug 11220: JAR generation fails by deselecting debug value 