3.2

from bug 148804: the derived flag marks generated files that should not be modified. we should warn the user when he starts modifying as all changes might later be overwritten again by the generator

3.2

from bug 148804: the derived flag marks generated files that should not be modified. we should warn the user when he starts modifying as all changes might later be overwritten again by the generator
The referenced bug seems wrong.Can you attach the right one?

We have to discuss and agree on this top-level first because it is not a text-editor only issue.
The correct number is bug 147516.
Mike, what's your take on this one? Personally I think it goes into the right direction. To correctly implement this we need to have a UI preference where the user can choose whether he wants to be warned or not (on by default) - this would be connected with the dialogs "remember my decision" checkbox.
We've certainly always considered the derived flag to indicate that the file was generated. As a user though, I hate having tooling tell me that I probably shouldn't change a file, without also being told where I *should* make the changes. It seems like there could be significant work to support making that inference.

I also don't like the fact that, as was indicated in 147516, implementing this could put an additional burden on every developer who writes code that modifies resources. Is there no way to fold this into our existing checks?

In any case, I'm in favour of us looking at this problem -- it seems more general than just JDT Text, btw. Since we're near the start of a cycle, now might be a good time to experiment.

We should continue the discussion in bug 147516 since it contains more details and suggestions already.

Marking this one as REMIND until we decide to go down this path.
*** Bug 153566 has been marked as a duplicate of this bug. ***
We discussed this today in a meeting and decided to go ahead with this. In a first round we will warn if a user he starts to type into any textual editor. The dialog can be marked as "don't show again" and this maps to the preference on the General > Editors > Text Editors page. If desired this preference can be overridden by concrete editors.
Fixed in HEAD.
Available in builds > N20060908-0010.


[misc] warn when editing a derived file

