When editing the name of a method in java, a pause in typing results in the 
selection of the method name. This is problematic for slow typers as they end 
up typing over what they just entered.

When editing the name of a method in java, a pause in typing results in the 
selection of the method name. This is problematic for slow typers as they end 
up typing over what they just entered.
This is consequence of reconcile every where.
Dani can you pls make the initial analysis.
Build Id?
There was a problem in 20020508 where the selection jumped to the class
declaration or the beginning of the CU but I could not reproduce your scenario.

Please provide a test case.

The build is I20020508. I can easily reproduce this by performing the following 
steps. 

1. Open a java source file of a project I have loaded from dev.eclipse.org
2. In the editor, click inside a method name and type one (or more) character.
3. Wait a second or so and the method name becomes selected.

This happens every time I do this.
Can you provide your backlink preferences. Is Java reconcile preference on or off?

And: which perspectives are open (and in the background). Which views are open?

The "Reconcile Java Views" preference was enabled but disabling it doesn't seem 
to have an effect. I didn't play around with my preferences so they are 
whatever the defaults are. My workspace is a few weeks old and has gone through 
a few builds. The perspectives I have open are Resources, Java Browsing and 
Debug. In my Java Browsing perspective I have the packages view from the Java 
perspective and the Console open as regular views and Junit, Search, Java 
Hierarchy, CVS Repositories, CVS Resource History, CVS Sync, Task and CVS 
Console as fast views.
ok. would you mind testing a new version of jdt.ui to see if the problem is fixed?
I can provide you with the plug-in.

Yes, I would be willing to do that. You can either provide me with it or tell 
me which version/branch to load from dev.eclipse.org.
Is on its way via e-mail.

Fixed.
Available in builds > 20020510
Verified.


Unacceptable behavior editing method names in Java Editor

