build 2002-06-17.

There is a Preference for emphasising inexact search results.
I would like one which would not include inexact results in the results at all.

build 2002-06-17.

There is a Preference for emphasising inexact search results.
I would like one which would not include inexact results in the results at all.
Not a general platform issue - moving to JDT UI
Currently not supported by the SearchEngine but the collector could do the
filtering.

While you might want to hide the inexact matches for one use case it might be
useful to see them in other cases e.g. when your build path is wrong.

If performance is the issue then you should move the PR to JDT Core and ask for
support in the SearchEngine.

What's about having a user action in search which removes all inexact matches.
Dirk's proposal seems ok to me.
DJ, is it OK for you too?

That sounds fine to me. Even something in the drop-down/context menu would be 
good.
Comment:
To do correct action enablement I need know if there are any potential matches.
This is currently done in the collector. The view does not know about it (yet).

Available in 2.1 builds > 20020829
Note:
1) The action is only available in the context menu of inexact matches
2) There is a new preference which allows to ignore inexact matches right from
the beginning (i.e. they are not even reported): Workbench -> Search
Since milestones are now available, changing milestone from "2.1" to "2.1 M1".
Included following in 2.1 release notes (incomparibility section):

There is a new preference setting that controls whether the search engine 
should report inexact matches. The user can set this via the Workbench > 
Search preference page. The new API method SearchUI.arePotentialMatchesIgnored 
should be used to query the preference setting. Existing clients that 
contribute particular search engine (or search page) should consider whether 
the notion of an inexact match is meaningful in their particular context, and 
honor this preference if it is. (bug 20663)


Removing inexact matches in search results [search]

