I often find myself searching for references to private methods and fields.

Searching the entire workspace is quite time consuming.

Searching the hierarchy is insufficient, since this will ignore inner classes 
which can access private members.

It would be nice if I could search just the compilation unit from the context 
menu.

I often find myself searching for references to private methods and fields.

Searching the entire workspace is quite time consuming.

Searching the hierarchy is insufficient, since this will ignore inner classes 
which can access private members.

It would be nice if I could search just the compilation unit from the context 
menu.
+1 here
Instead of offering a Compilation Unit scope we could be smarter creating the 
scope. For example if a user selects a private member than this one can only be 
accessed in the CU. So even if the user select workspace search could create 
a "workspace" scope that considers the visibility of a member. Additionally we 
could be smarter when searching for declaration or references. For example a 
public member can only be referenced in projects that are referencing the one 
that is declaring the member. None of the referenced project can have a 
reference on this. Both optimazations would speed up search. BTW: refactoring 
is doing the same when searching for affected elements.

Daniel, what do you think ?
See Bug 21879 to see why they don't want to optimize search based on member 
visibility.
Regarding Philippe's comment: why would I be interested if some other CU (no
matter whether correct or incorrect code) references my PRIVATE field?

Maybe the field used to be public.
You changed it to private.
Now you want to fix everplace that was referring to it directly.

Still, though, the search could ignore all error free, up to date CUs.
If done it should be done together with 
16287: Feature request: "Search in project" option

There is now a search occurrences in file action (that also works for locals 
and params)


Should allow search scope of Compilation Unit [search]

