If I open the Navigator in the Java Browsing perspective and select a non-jaa 
project, the Packages view shows the folders in the project as empty packages. 
I would have expected the packages view to be empty in this case.

If I open the Navigator in the Java Browsing perspective and select a non-jaa 
project, the Packages view shows the folders in the project as empty packages. 
I would have expected the packages view to be empty in this case.
Confirmed. IMO the packages view should be empty in this case.
It works as designed i.e. it helps you see the context of the file even if it is
not a Java resource: first, it will select the project in the projects view
(this results in the Packages view being filled with the packages of the
selected project.
Note: empty packages are only shown if the filter in the Packages view is disabled.
If the resource's folder corresponds to an underlying resource of a package
visible in the Packages view then this package will be selected. As a result the
types view will show the types for that package.
Note: same will work if you select a folder.

One of the most useful cases for this behavior is if you edit property files and
switch between them: you immediately see where it is located.

By the way: there's no need to use the Navigator in the browsing view: I suggest
to give the following setup a try:

1. Open Browsing perspective
2. Replace the Projects view with the Package Explorer
3. In the Package Explorer enable to filter Java elements
==> you can now browse Java elements and resources in the same perspective

Can the package explorer be configured to show non-java projects? I already use 
the Package Explorer for the purpose you mentioned but I need the Navigator to 
work with non-java projects (such as the releng map project).

As for the empty packages, It's not such a big issue that I would push on it 
but it seems to me that the purpose you quoted is for empty packages in Java 
projects (and I agree this is useful). However, I don't think there is any use 
for showing the folders in a non-Java project as empty packages because they 
are not packages at all.
I did fully read/understand your PR. Of course it is wrong to show empty
folders. I have to track where they come from.

Fixed. The Java model treated the thing as Java project because the resource was
in the workspace. I now explicitly check for the Java nature.

BTW: no - the Package Explorer doesn't show non-Java projects.



Packages view in Java Browsing updates to navigator selection [browsing]



Fixed 26862: Packages view in Java Browsing updates to navigator selection [browsing] 