1. In the package view open the working set selection dialog
2. remove an existing entry
3. press cancel
4. open the dialog again. entry was removed, even cancel was pressed.

1. In the package view open the working set selection dialog
2. remove an existing entry
3. press cancel
4. open the dialog again. entry was removed, even cancel was pressed.
This is a SELECTION dialog. Cancel means the same as in all other selection
dialogs: don't select and close - it does not effect other actions.

To be more user friendly, the list also allows you to modify, create and remove
working sets from the workspace (otherwise this would have to be done via
Workbench -> Preferences).

I could add a confirmation dialog, but normally I hate that.

BTW: this is the same behavior as in VAJ *and* Leapfrog

Suggest no further action.
as this is a selection dialog I agree.
problem is that 'remove' also makes sense in another context: Disabling the 
working set from the package view.
I wanted to deselect the working set. I did not think enough and pressed 
remove. Then I saw that this deleted my valuable working set and I canceled. 

in my opinion, the working set dialogs are currently confusing.  




There is
- an explicit "Remove filter..." on the Packages view.
- a dialog title which gives the context for the remove "Working Sets"

I could allow to unselect the current selection and then allow to press ok,
would that help?

Changed working set selection dialog, packages view and search dialog to allow
empty selection.

Closing this PR. New bug should be reported against upcoming working set
solution from platform (this is a commited item on the 2.0 plan).
Available in builds > 20011217



working set removed on cancel



Fixed bug 369319: [junit] interesting warning in JUnitPropertyTester 

Fixed bug 266931: [surround with] quick menu shows too many entries for word in Javadoc 

- 62756: Introduce parameter refactoring: Should update javadoc - 46931: AssertionFailedException on IntroduceParameter on a local type [refactoring] - support for constructors - support for references in other CUs (retains formatting) 