We iterate over all engines and retrieve their "alias" to compare to the entered text (for triggering search engines using a keyword). Unfortunately the getter for the alias doesn't cache a null result, which means that we end up hitting SQLite for the value multiple times in the common case (engines not having an alias).

(Jeff was seeing this hit the disk every time, which seems like a failure of caching for SQLite, since this DB is very small and should fit in memory. That's a separate issue that needs investigation though.)

We iterate over all engines and retrieve their "alias" to compare to the entered text (for triggering search engines using a keyword). Unfortunately the getter for the alias doesn't cache a null result, which means that we end up hitting SQLite for the value multiple times in the common case (engines not having an alias).

(Jeff was seeing this hit the disk every time, which seems like a failure of caching for SQLite, since this DB is very small and should fit in memory. That's a separate issue that needs investigation though.)
Created attachment 568481
patch
(In reply to Gavin Sharp (use gavin@gavinsharp.com for email) from comment #0)
> (Jeff was seeing this hit the disk every time, which seems like a failure of
> caching for SQLite, since this DB is very small and should fit in memory.
> That's a separate issue that needs investigation though.)

It appears as though this was just rereading of the lock page, which is expected. I have however filed a bug on getting rid of that read too: bug 696364.
Created attachment 568698
patch

I changed my mind about this after thinking about the "alias" getter - I think it's best to have aliases continue to be |null| if they're not set, rather than |""|. So to preserve that behavior I'm just switching to use "undefined" as the uninitialized value.
https://hg.mozilla.org/integration/mozilla-inbound/rev/3cf9011b5494
https://hg.mozilla.org/mozilla-central/rev/3cf9011b5494


search engine "alias" getter caching is broken, results in many unnecessary synchronous SQLite reads when entering text in the location bar



Bug 696179: properly cache null results for "alias" from the engineMetadataService so that we avoid hitting SQLite multiple times when entering text in the location bar, r=rflint 