Adding new files to a working set is really a pain:

I have to edit the working set and browse until I reach the package or file I want to add.

This could be done more easily from the Package Explorer or Editor Context menu.

Sometimes, there is already a "Remove from working set" entry, but not for all items. And the "Add to..." working set is completely missing.

This would be useful in the "Other projects..." tree or even in another working set.

While this is "only" an enhancement, I would regard this as a higher priority.

Thanks, Jörg

Adding new files to a working set is really a pain:

I have to edit the working set and browse until I reach the package or file I want to add.

This could be done more easily from the Package Explorer or Editor Context menu.

Sometimes, there is already a "Remove from working set" entry, but not for all items. And the "Add to..." working set is completely missing.

This would be useful in the "Other projects..." tree or even in another working set.

While this is "only" an enhancement, I would regard this as a higher priority.

Thanks, Jörg
Not sure if this is JDT or should be handled by Platform/UI. Feel free to punt back.
Adding a 'Add to Working Set' action is a good idea. But maybe we should just improve the 'Edit Working Set' dialog which is a pain to work in if you have many projects. I also have problems finding entries as scrolling is involved and expanding a node covers the whole screen.

First ideas:
- Avoid the checkbox tree but use a list with 'add/remove'
- Two pane dialog with all elements and already added entries (similar to PDEs Plugin Import)

I think we should look at that for 3.3


*** Bug 154589 has been marked as a duplicate of this bug. ***
Improving the Edit Working Set dialog is definitely a good idea.

But this use case happens occasionally:

* Editing a file in the working set
* This file uses a class, interface etc not in the working set
* Now I have to change this dependent class.
* It is open in the editor view, and in "Other projects" of the Package Explorer.

Now I would like to have a quick way to add it to the working set.
Opening the "Edit Working Set" dialog and browsing to the file is too cumbersome, even if the dialog has been improved. 
Would be good to look at as polish item for 3.3

Bug 182100 is about the 'Add to...' action
Created attachment 77157
fix
fixed > I20070821-0800

Mmm, that's better, we should do the same for the edit resource working set dialog...


[working sets] Improve "Edit Working-Set"  Dialog



154186 [working sets] Improve "Edit Working-Set" Dialog - Prepare API 

Bug 154186 [working sets] Improve "Edit Working-Set" Dialog 