The Eclipse NLS tooling should better support the the new Eclipse string externalization pattern added in 
3.1, along with ways to help developers with unused keys and unused property file entries. [JDT UI]

The Eclipse NLS tooling should better support the the new Eclipse string externalization pattern added in 
3.1, along with ways to help developers with unused keys and unused property file entries. [JDT UI]
This item is JDT Text and not JDT UI.
Mike, can you please update the item on the 3.2 plan? Thanks.
Jeem, said he would change it for me.
Here's some things that needs fixed in the Externalize Strings wizard: 

1) Currently when you add or edit keys the changes are reflected in the 
specified properties file (say 'strings.properties'). But if you have more files 
in your bundle ('strings_dk.properties', 'strings_it.properties' etc) you have 
to edit them manually. So it should be possible to specify more than one 
property file (perhaps using wildcards?) and/or the wizard should (optionally?) 
try to find all property files based on the root part (in this case 'strings') 
and display them in the 'changes to be performed' list.

2) It's cumbersome to remove keys. First you need to start the wizard and 
internalize the key (and, as above, this only works on one property file) and 
then you can remove the string from your code. The wizard should detect keys 
that are no longer in use and offer to remove them from the accessor class and 
the relevant property file(s).

3) And finally, when you have more than one source file externalized in one set 
of accessor class/property file(s), _please_ consider making it possible to open 
 all of these source files at the same time in the wizard. It's a pain having to 
 open wizard for source file 1, edit keys, perform changes, open wizard for file 
 2 etc...

If any of these points needs a seperate bug#, feel free to move them or ask me 
and I'll do it.

Regards /Max

 
Please file a separate PRs. 1) and 3) are enhancement requests which will
most-likely not be addressed for 3.2 unless there's a good quality contribution.
2) looks like a bug.
The text of this item in the plan has changed. The new text is:
"
The Eclipse NLS tooling should better support the new Eclipse string externalization pattern added in 3.1. [JDT Text]
"

Benno, drop by for more info.
fixed > I20060301-0800

NLSStringHover: Show the value of the nls constant when hovering over a reference to an NLS constant.
NLSKeyHyperlink: Jump directly to the definition of nls constant in the property file when clicking on the link of an NLS constant reference.
PropertyKeyHyperlink: Jump to users of an nls value when clicking on the link in the properties file (or show a dialog if multiple users)
NLSSearchResultRequestor: Search for and show 
      +Unusued property keys 
      +Referenced but undefined property keys

All this is supposed to work and behave the same with the traditional nls style and the eclipse nls style.

Max, 1) and 3) are enhancement requests, as Dani said, file separate bugs. I think also 2) is an enhancement, or did the dialog ever detect unused keys? You can use the NLS search to find unused/undefined nls keys.
