Until yesterday everything was fine with java development in eclipse (3.1.1).
Now I want to create another java project (the 13th one in this workspace), which seems to work as always. But then: when I switch to the java perspective the new project is not shown in the package explorer. Even worse, no new java project is shown in the java perspective anymore (I tried both creating a fresh one and importing one with existing sources). When I start eclipse with a clean workspace, everything seems to be fine again.

Until yesterday everything was fine with java development in eclipse (3.1.1).
Now I want to create another java project (the 13th one in this workspace), which seems to work as always. But then: when I switch to the java perspective the new project is not shown in the package explorer. Even worse, no new java project is shown in the java perspective anymore (I tried both creating a fresh one and importing one with existing sources). When I start eclipse with a clean workspace, everything seems to be fine again.
Is there anything of note in your workspace/.metadata/.log file?
Created attachment 31035
log file containing lots of exceptions
(sorry, using eclipse's bugzilla for the first time. this message should have been sent together with the attached log file)

Indeed, it's full of exceptions. But most of them concern a project I never noticed any problems with (it's called "Geocoder2_Extracted"). Maybe I should mention that I was working on this project with Eclipse and Netbeans (because of the gui builder) in parallel. But, again, this project never made any problems. The projects I actually had problems with were called "Tests" and "JavaMail".

I hope this helps you a bit. I'm attaching the .log file (zipped, as it is approx. 500kB large).


The errors in the log seems to be unreleated to creating a project.

Can you see the new project in the navigator view? Can you attach the .project file in it?

If can create more Java projects. Are they all hidden as well?
Created attachment 31102
.project file of the hidden project "Tests"
> Can you see the new project in the navigator view? 

Yes, I see it in the navigator view, but not in the package view.

> Can you attach the .project file in it?

The .project file of one of the hidden projects ("Tests") is attached. But I can't find anything of interest in it.

> If can create more Java projects. Are they all hidden as well?

Yes, they are all hidden.


Yes, this project should show up.

And you don't have any filters enabled on the package explorer, e.g. a working set activated?

What about the projects view in the browsing perspective?
> And you don't have any filters enabled on the package explorer, e.g. a working
> set activated?

Yes, you are totally right! I did check the filters (which were turned off) but I forgot that I had activated a working set some time ago (just for testing purposes). So I think you can close this bug now...

Sorry for wasting your time!
