The APT org.eclipse.help.toc and org.eclipse.help.contexts extensions must be moved from the org.eclipse.jdt.apt.ui plugin to either the org.eclipse.jdt.doc.isv or org.eclipse.jdt.doc.user plugin for translation.

Documentation must be contained in separate doc plugins in order to be translated effectively.

The APT org.eclipse.help.toc and org.eclipse.help.contexts extensions must be moved from the org.eclipse.jdt.apt.ui plugin to either the org.eclipse.jdt.doc.isv or org.eclipse.jdt.doc.user plugin for translation.

Documentation must be contained in separate doc plugins in order to be translated effectively.
We don't have commit privileges on the jdt.doc.* plugins.  I am trying to find out whether it is more appropriate for us to create a jdt.apt.doc plugin, or to gain commit privileges on jdt.doc.* plugins.
Any update on this? Is the move still planned for Eclipse 3.2? This will affect the globalization plan for Eclipse. We really should fix this in 3.2. Thanks.
Hi, Kit.  I looked into it, but it looks like the way that the JDT docs plugin is organized is different than the way that the APT docs are organized, and there is some functional infrastructure in the JDT docs plugin that I didn't feel I understood well enough to be sure of not breaking it.  So making this change is going to be a nontrivial amount of work, and will require some help from someone who understands the JDT docs organization and mechanisms.  I am not sure we will have time to do it in this release.  Assuming we do, who is a knowledgeable person who can help me with it?
Mike and Dirk, this is the APT doc bug that was mentioned on the weekly team call a few weeks ago.  At that time you said there had been problems getting the committer rights for the doc project correct but those problems were being resolved.

We have to get this fixed for 3.2.  Who owns the JDT Documentation plugin?  Is that you Dirk?

No, its Martin Aeschlimann now. CCing him...
Please send me a patch and I release it. Thanks!
Hi, Martin.  I think the committer issue has been fixed; the problem is that I'll need to get some information on how to make the APT docs fit into the JDT docs naming conventions and infrastructure.  I'll work with you to make that happen.  (Except, I'll be at EclipseCon next week so I probably won't get much done till after that.)
I'll be at EclipseCon too, maybe we can have a look at it there.
Fixed - thanks to Martin and Sonia for lots of help.
