Build 20020328, JDK 1.4.0
When opening a very large file like org.apache.xpath.objects.XObject, Eclipse 
gets practically hung for several minutes (I have more than enough RAM and CPU 
speed).

Build 20020328, JDK 1.4.0
When opening a very large file like org.apache.xpath.objects.XObject, Eclipse 
gets practically hung for several minutes (I have more than enough RAM and CPU 
speed).
One additional point: it seems to happen only when the hierarchy browser is 
open simultaneously.
Sorry for the long list, I should have done a fuller analysis before 
submission, but the last comment is only partially true, when the mouse goes 
over the editor it also starts to eat up CPU cycles and effectively suspends 
for a LONG time.
This problem is getting really bad. I started with an empty workspace and build 
20020321, no problems. Added all my projects from CVS: the editor does not hang 
at all. 
Then I created another empty workspace and imported all the files from CVS 
again but with build 20020404. On certain files and only after everything 
compiled properly with weblogic.jar the hanging editor problem reappeared. When 
I substituted a standard j2ee.jar. The hanging went away (I still had one file 
that did not compile, because a developer was using a specific weblogic class). 
It is definitely the weblogic.jar that is causing the hanging for most files in 
the project that uses the jar file. I can get around it for now using 
reflection, but it is a serious problem for the unsuspecting.
It is relatively easy to reproduce - just create a servlet that extends from 
HttpServlet - then add weblogic.jar to the classpath, and navigate around in 
the servlet. It takes 10-20-30 seconds with 100% CPU.

Then remove weblogic.jar from the classpath, and use e.g. sun's reference 
servlet.jar and it is lightyears faster.

IMHO the severity of this is critical, and it should be fixed for M5
Do you see the same problems with build F2? This would help us a big deal.
It works with F2.
Closed as no further issue reported.
