I20060301-0800

The link to configure the compliance on the Java project wizard only allows to configure the workbench preference. It would make sense to hava a link to configure the project settings as well.

I20060301-0800

The link to configure the compliance on the Java project wizard only allows to configure the workbench preference. It would make sense to hava a link to configure the project settings as well.
The compliance is evaluated from the chosen JRE. Showing the project preference page is difficult then, as it would have to be configured with the JRE.
We could add a extra combo on the wizard for the compliance, but just if you chose to have project spcific settings.
Tobias, what's the use case? You don't like the guess we do using the JRE, or is that too hidden?
No, the guess and everything is fine. I just think that changing the workspace settings is a little too much if only a new project is created. Why not offer to fix the compliance problem with specific project settings instead of changing my workspace setting?
My test setup was launching a new Eclipse workspace using a 5.0 JRE, but having a workspace setting of 1.4 compliance. No warning about compliance is shown in the preference dialog.
If a new project is created, a warning appears about mismatching compliance, but I only have the option to change the workspace setting, which, although valid, is probably a little to invasive. Changing the project settings would be enough.
I you choose a project specific 5.0 JRE, the project compliance should change automatically change to it. Isn't that the case?
Yes, this is the case.
Then I'm not sure what is wrong with the current wizard. Ok to close?
- Have a 1.5 JRE and 1.4 compliance as default settings
- open new project wizard
The error message says:
'using a 1.5 JRE with compiler compliance 1.4 is not recommended. Configure...'

It should be more obvious that this is a workspace settings problem:

'The current workspace uses a 5.0 JRE with compiler compliance 1.4. This is not recommended and either JRE or compliance should be changed to match. Configure...'

The error message should also be separated more from the group box, maybe a warning icon added.

Adding a additional combo as discussed in comment 1 would also be nice: It would allow to set the compliance when choosing a project specific JRE. I would put inside the JRE groups, set it below the project specific JRE radio and disable it when workspace JRE is selected (but have it show the current workspace compliance)
(In reply to comment #6)

> It should be more obvious that this is a workspace settings problem:
> 
> 'The current workspace uses a 5.0 JRE with compiler compliance 1.4. This is not
> recommended and either JRE or compliance should be changed to match.
> Configure...'

+1 for M7, minor polish

> The error message should also be separated more from the group box, maybe a
> warning icon added.

+1 for M7, minor polish

> Adding a additional combo as discussed in comment 1 would also be nice: It
> would allow to set the compliance when choosing a project specific JRE. I would
> put inside the JRE groups, set it below the project specific JRE radio and
> disable it when workspace JRE is selected (but have it show the current
> workspace compliance)

-1, we worked "hard" to get rid of CC concept on the page. Why would you want to change the CC level when selecting a project specific JRE? As far as I understand, Tobias wants to change the CC level for the project when the default JRE is selected.

Workaround is selecting a project specific JRE.

IMHO best thing to do (I know, not realistic) is to get rid of the CC warning completely. If the default JRE is selected and is incompatible with the default CC then a project specific recommended CC would be silently used for the new project.

Hint that a link to the project settings is not possible because the project has not yet been created.
Created attachment 63368
fix
fixed > I20070403-1110
