Build 20020418

- I was browsing some source (not even actively editing).
- Suddenly I noticed there was a squiggle on one of the constructors.
- Hover told me that there were two methods (sp) with the same name.
- Scrolled down to see that, in fact, I did have another copy of the 
constructor.  Strange.  How did this ever compile?
- It turns out I must have inadvertently dragged the constructor a little bit 
in the Outline.
- With the new DnD support in the Outline, it is far too easy to create 
duplicates.

Build 20020418

- I was browsing some source (not even actively editing).
- Suddenly I noticed there was a squiggle on one of the constructors.
- Hover told me that there were two methods (sp) with the same name.
- Scrolled down to see that, in fact, I did have another copy of the 
constructor.  Strange.  How did this ever compile?
- It turns out I must have inadvertently dragged the constructor a little bit 
in the Outline.
- With the new DnD support in the Outline, it is far too easy to create 
duplicates.
*** Bug 14256 has been marked as a duplicate of this bug. ***
The problem is that you can also drop methods on other methods and we try to be 
smart to infer the containter.

We should not try to be that smart, a drop of a Method (element) should only 
occur when the user drags over an IType (a legal parent).
i disagree. you might want to rearrange your methods by dnd. then you want to 
paste a method over a method. otherwise - the rearrangement feature is gone.

and ctrl+c, ctrl+v creates duplictes nicely., would be not good to lose this 
function.
i think a good solution would be if the platform provided support for saying:
'ignore drop attempts if they happen withing less than x milliseconds from drag 
start'. this would eliminate the problem without losing any function.

I agree that reordering via drag&drop would be desirable. However, there are 
several issues:

- reordering methods only makes sense when the view is not sorted (most users 
have the sorting turned on)

- when reordering methods what does drop onto an element mean, drop before or 
after? 

- when reordering methods then we should only do so when the method is dropped 
in between methods and in addition we have to show a corresponding drop 
acceptance feedback (a line in between two items). Making the drop timer based 
does not solve this problem.

Given these issues we should remove the smartness for now.

>ctrl+c, ctrl+v creates duplictes nicely
this is an argument for reviving the duplicate action.
the time based solution seems to work - i do not get any accidental copying 
now. 
i think, if copying is indeed your intention, than you usually do it slower a 
bit (i set the treshold to 150ms) - so this approach should be good.

closing - please reopen if it happens again.
fixed for 20020423
I concur with all of Erich's issues.  Have these been addressed?
Time based solutions are risky from an accessibility point of view as well.
E.g. if I have motor difficulties, your time limit may be too short for me.

the time limit works the other way roung - dnd does _not_ happen if you move 
too quickly - so i see no accessibility problem here.

reordering by dnd will probably not be supported for 2.0
No, it's still a problem.
If I have motor difficulties, then I can operate a mouse but the movement may 
be slow and jiggly.  So what I intended as a simple selection could easily 
cause an unwanted drag.

a possible solution i see is to open a dialog. but that'd get on everybody's 
nerves very soon.

suggestions?
I agree a dialog would be too much of an interruption.

Note that I don't think the feature is a bad idea.  I've often wanted to do D&D 
rearrangement of source (with an outline, not in the text editor).
I think as long as the feedback is appropriate, as Erich suggests, then D&D can 
be made to work.  It's just surprising for it to have an effect if there's no 
feedback.  And there's also the issue of what to do if the outline is sorted.

Another related feature would be to just sort the methods alphabetically (in 
the source, not just the presentation in the outline).
