Code generation choices include methods that are final.  Final methods should not be included since they cannot be overridden.

Code generation choices include methods that are final.  Final methods should not be included since they cannot be overridden.
Move to JDT/UI
I can't reproduce that in RC4. Can you give example code and steps?
I can't reproduce it either.  My mistake.
Created attachment 42595
Standalone test case

In SubFamily.Delegate note that final methods were generated.
Aha!  Found it.  The problem specifically concerns Source:Generate delegate methods.

Delegate methods are being generated even though some of those methods are
final in the superclass.

The version is Version: 3.2.0
Build id: I20060519-1206
In SubFamily.Delegate I included comments detailing another long lingering problem with all auto-generated methods: Insert at cursor somethimes is not a choice, or if it is it occurs at the wrong place relative to any surrounding comments.

Give it a try in my test code.  Try auto-inserting some methods at various places in the code -- before, between, and after various comments. 
On a related note, it also seems that

 Source:Generate delegate methods

ONLY generates delegate methods for public methods.  It would be nice if there were a choice to include protected and other flavors of methods since "delegation" is used in many ways.
Closing as works for me.
Please reopen if you have exact steps to reproduce.
I provided the code and the exact steps to reproduce it.   Did you do what I said to do, using the code?  I'm seeing compiler errors because eclipse generated code that tries to override final methods.  Delete the generated code and try doing it yourself as I instructed.

There were other issues I raised about generating delegate methods.  Did you not see these problems also?  What about the wrong insertion point? What about the suggestion of generating non-public delegate methods?

What exactly did you try?  It seems to me that you tried the wrong thing or did not understand the problem.  And, it certainly seems that you did not read all of my comments.

If you need more information or help ask for it.
Please use separate bug reports for your requests. That way the person which does bug triage can quickly see the actual problem and does not have to scan through all comments to see whether something has been missed. Please also do a quick scan to find out whether your requests have been filed already.
OK.  The main problem is generation of delegate methods that are final. I didn't think this was a duplicate. Do you need any help reproducing the problem?
No, the main problem is clear.

Setting milestone to 3.3
Fixed in I20060711-0800
