As a part of (I believe) 135285, The Surround With... menu was created, and the proposals were removed from Quick Fix.  This causes two issues:  1) users must learn another keystroke, and 2) the sort order to access the templates is completely different.

Can we make this available as an option?  Or, and I know this is not easy, what about making Ctrl+1 cycle in a way similar to how Ctrl+Space now works.

Pat.

As a part of (I believe) 135285, The Surround With... menu was created, and the proposals were removed from Quick Fix.  This causes two issues:  1) users must learn another keystroke, and 2) the sort order to access the templates is completely different.

Can we make this available as an option?  Or, and I know this is not easy, what about making Ctrl+1 cycle in a way similar to how Ctrl+Space now works.

Pat.
At the moment, there are no plans to bring the 'surround with' proposals back to quick assist. We always felt that quick assist was the wrong place for this as it required a multi line selection which is not tyical for quick assist. New users didn't find this feature. I'm hestitating to add a 'compatibility' mode: This just adds more complexity.

But I agree that we should fix the sort order.

Another big change here is that ctrl+space and ctrl+1 both offer a custom pop-up component, that, amoung other things, offer a change preview and additional documentation.  

Using the system menu of course means we don't get those features.  And perhaps bringing back that component (even outside of quick-fix) would fix the sorting issue...
Interesting tidbit, for those who care: I've dropped my usage of Surround With to about 25% or less of my previous levels (from 4 or more times daily to about once a day or less)...  The issues and decreased functionality of the tool have made it less useful.

Again, I'd lobby for this to move back into quick fix... templates are smartly integrated with ctrl+space, so it's not a far cry for someone to see that some templates are in Quick Fix.
Fix the sort order as 3.3 M7 polish
Created attachment 63714
fix
fixed > I20070410-1043
