In tomorrows integration build (which will probably be today by the time you read this bug), there will be support for the use of file buffers in compare editors. The use of file buffers requires modifications to the Java compare classes. I will attach a patch. Also, any feedback is welcome.

In tomorrows integration build (which will probably be today by the time you read this bug), there will be support for the use of file buffers in compare editors. The use of file buffers requires modifications to the Java compare classes. I will attach a patch. Also, any feedback is welcome.
Created attachment 49861
Patch to JDT/UI
Let me take this one.
I slightly modified the patch before committing it:
- converted all code to use the correct partitionings
- fixed the TODO (ensure document is correctly setup)
- minor formatting

I released the code into todays I-build so that we have better test coverage towards M2.

There's one remaining TODO: Could make use of shared document
Michael, can you take care of that one?

André,
can you review the changes in HEAD (all in org.eclipse.jdt.internal.ui.compare).
.
Dani, sorry about the missed TODOs. I have so many projects loaded that I had to turn them off for my workspace and on for particular projects and I neglected to turn them on for JDT/UI. Unfortunately, the one you fixed was actually not relevant as the setupDocument call is made (by the super class and by one local method) before calling the method in question. This is not really a problem since setupDocument has a check to avoid overwritting an existing partitioning. I'll leave it to you to decide whether the call should be removed.

As for the other TODO, I have logged bug 157027 to add shared document support to the Java element comparison (since that is the scenario that uses the locate method).
>Dani, sorry about the missed TODOs.
No problem.

I removed the call to setupDocument again because it could even lead to an NPE if the document is null (which could happen, see StructureCreator.getStructure()).
