3.3 M3

I enabled Clean up on save, and used the default save participant profile.  When I started using it, I noticed that it was formatting my comments, even though my active formatter profile says comments should not be formatted. When I investigated I noticed that the clean up profile has a separate check box for "format comments".  Why have a separate option for this when it is already part of the general formatter profile? The expected behaviour is that my formatter settings will always be obeyed...

3.3 M3

I enabled Clean up on save, and used the default save participant profile.  When I started using it, I noticed that it was formatting my comments, even though my active formatter profile says comments should not be formatted. When I investigated I noticed that the clean up profile has a separate check box for "format comments".  Why have a separate option for this when it is already part of the general formatter profile? The expected behaviour is that my formatter settings will always be obeyed...
Not related to clean up on save but a general "clean up" issue.
the request makes sense, I guess it's better to reuse the settings as specified in the formatter profile.
Ok, I can do that. But remember, that the formatter settings do not allow to specify which kind of comment to format (See Bug 49412). On clean up you can turn on/off formatting of Javadoc, single line, and multi line comments. I think formatting javadoc on safe makes sense, formatting single line comments certainly not. I think fixing Bug 49412 first would make more sense and init the clean up comment formatting setting with the formatter setting in the meantime.
Fixing bug 49412 makes sense... then you on the clean up wizard you just need a "Format code" checkbox, and get rid of the comment formatting checkboxes. (or have a combo that alway me to select a formatter profile to use for this particular cleanup, if you want different formatter settings for cleanup from regular format command)
This doesn't look like a Vista specific issue
Created attachment 58119
fix
fixed > I20070130-0800

