(I will supply a patch)

Remote help allows products to place all their docs on a server and configure their client's help to talk to that server. However, help servers may be used to host help for more than one product (or variants of products), but users should only see the help for their product, and it should filter out the rest.

We propose to do this by adding an enablement expression on the TOC contents that will only show the docs if the component is installed.

(I will supply a patch)

Remote help allows products to place all their docs on a server and configure their client's help to talk to that server. However, help servers may be used to host help for more than one product (or variants of products), but users should only see the help for their product, and it should filter out the rest.

We propose to do this by adding an enablement expression on the TOC contents that will only show the docs if the component is installed.
Created attachment 57558
patch on org.eclipse.jdt.doc.isv and org.eclipse.jdt.doc.user
Curtis, why should we test for "org.eclipse.jdt.ui" and not for "org.eclipse.jdt.core"? Shouldn't a doc plug-in be shown when at least one of the plug-ins it provides doc for is available?

I saw that you test for "org.eclipse.ui.workbench" in org.eclipse.platform.doc.user
=> should be a core plug-in, IMO

In "org.eclipse.platform.doc.isv" you test for "org.eclipse.pde.ui", which also looks strange to me.
The reason I picked the UI plugin is because most of what I saw in the user docs was referring to UI functionality. For the isv docs (platform and jdt), I went by the available tooling. I would suspect that nearly all users developing for JDT would be using JDT to do so, and for developing plug-ins nearly everyone would be using PDE.

If we chose JDT core for the JDT user docs, we might run into cases like where a non-IDE app simply uses JDT core to do some compiling internally but does not provide Java tooling. Like for compiling JSPs to serve a web app or what not.

It's not a perfect matching, I realize, but will (from what I understand) cover the vast majority of cases. I'm open to new suggestions though if you have any.
Thanks, released fix to HEAD.
