Messager is the interface used by annotation processors to report errors.  The Messager implementation is obtained by calling ProcessingEnvironment.getMessager().

We have a fully functional Messager implementation in the batch compiler.  However, at present, the Messager supplied by the IDE implementation of Java 6 annotation processing is null, so processors that attempt to use it will get NPEs.  We need to provide at least a stubbed-out Messager implementation, so that the IDE support is usable for people beginning to explore the new Java 6 annotation processing feature.

Messager is the interface used by annotation processors to report errors.  The Messager implementation is obtained by calling ProcessingEnvironment.getMessager().

We have a fully functional Messager implementation in the batch compiler.  However, at present, the Messager supplied by the IDE implementation of Java 6 annotation processing is null, so processors that attempt to use it will get NPEs.  We need to provide at least a stubbed-out Messager implementation, so that the IDE support is usable for people beginning to explore the new Java 6 annotation processing feature.
We now have a preliminary implementation that will at least let people get their work done; it dumps Messager output to the log as INFO-level entries.  This is not sufficient but at least it is no longer critical.
Created attachment 66382
Proposed patch

Proposed patch adds a do-nothing Java 6 compilation participant in order to register a managed problem marker for problems contributed by Java 6 annotation processors.  Also refactors some existing batch-mode classes to extract functionality shared by IDE and batch mode.

This patch exposes the same problem that was reported and fixed for Java 5 in bug 175794, that reported problems can disappear when types are generated due to the file being recompiled but not reprocessed.  It should be possible to use a similar strategy here as was used in Java 5 processing.
Jess, please review.
+1 We should enable problem reporting in IDE mode.
Fixed.  The issue with markers getting cleared has been entered as bug 186057.
