build F2

1) import a binary plug-in
2) in the navigator select the filter binary projects option
3) check out the same project from the repository
4) the project does not show up in the navigator as if it was a binary project

build F2

1) import a binary plug-in
2) in the navigator select the filter binary projects option
3) check out the same project from the repository
4) the project does not show up in the navigator as if it was a binary project
PDE works correctly in this case. Just go to the pull-down and disable the 
binary project filter. The project will show up and if you have binary 
decorators turned on, you will notice that it does not have a decorator 
(this is important because binary decorator and binary project filter use
the same method to determine if a project is a binary plug-in project). Now 
enable the binary filter again - you will notice that it will stay visible.

The problem is likely in that the Packages view didn't refresh on resource 
changes. 

Moving to JDT UI.
Verified. Candidate for F4
need to investigate what kind of deltas we receive when a project changes from 
binary to source
no action for 2.0
reopen to fix
The resource delta reports model and project as changed. It reports files that
were there before replacing as having changed. The delta also contains additions
and removals. The problem is that if CONTENT changes we normally assume that it
does not affect filtering (otherwise we would have to refresh the viewer upon
each delta). The binary filter uses internal state which is not covered by the
resource delta. Adding a resource listener and acting to it is not possible for
the BinaryProjectFilter since it is contributed via XML and has no access to its
viewer. Also there's no special resource delta to catch a replace of a project.
If we would get an add and a remove then it would work.

1) Adding a resource listener and acting to it is not possible for
the BinaryProjectFilter for another reason: ViewerFilter does not have a life
cycle and therefore it would not be possible to remove the listener once the
filter gets removed from the viewer. If this changes in the future the
BinaryProjectFilter could fix the problem.
2) It is not fully true that the delta does not contain the information whether
the project description has changed or not: the project's resource delta kind
contains the flag IResourceDelta.DESCRIPTION but unfortunately this is not
contained in the Java element delta. However this information would not help to
cleanly solve the problem (see 3).
3) The content provider would have to assume that there is a filter which
depends on the project description. This is not ok. The general approach i.e.
assuming that a resource content change could trigger a refilter is not feasible
since it would mean to refilter on every resource change.

Removing target milestone and defer problem (LATER).

needs more steps than one to change the owner of a later PR
needs more steps than one to change the owner of a later PR
*** Bug 25139 has been marked as a duplicate of this bug. ***
This has been fixed quite some time ago.
