I20070807-0010 and also in R3.3

1. select a method
2. Refactor > Move...
==> you get a dialog that this isn't possible. The text in this dialog is not understandable:

This method cannot be moved, since no possible targets have been found. An instance method can be moved to source classes that are used as types of its parameters or types of fields declared in the same class as the method.

I20070807-0010 and also in R3.3

1. select a method
2. Refactor > Move...
==> you get a dialog that this isn't possible. The text in this dialog is not understandable:

This method cannot be moved, since no possible targets have been found. An instance method can be moved to source classes that are used as types of its parameters or types of fields declared in the same class as the method.
As an example this is the case for:
org.eclipse.jdt.ui.examples.filters.PureProjectFilter.select(Viewer, Object, Object)
in project org.eclipse.jdt.ui.tests


I think the dialog wants to tell us, that to move a method either:
- one of the declaring classes of the types of its parameters must be available in source
or
- there must be a field with a type for which is true that the declaring class of the type is a member of the declaring class of the method

How can someone possibly understand that...

Maybe: 'This method can only be moved to a class which is reachable from within this method. It must therefore either be the type of a parameter of this method or the type of a field in this class. In addition the new destination of this method must be writable.'
It's also not true, that the type of the field must be declared in the same class to do the move.
Not critical for M1. 
Created attachment 75958
fix

This method cannot be moved, since no possible targets have been found. 

Only a class which is reachable from within this method can be a valid target. The target must therefore be the declaring class of a parameter or field type. In addition the target must be writable.
fixed > I20070809-1105

Not sure if this is sooo much better. IMHO it's also a pretty useless refactoring.
