I20070814-1100

- new workspace
- create new Java project P1
- delete P1, leave "Do not delete contents"
- create new Java project
=> can't create project with name P1 again

We should detect that there's no project P1 in the workspace and replace the fatal error with a warning that tells that the found project will be imported and that the settings in the wizard will not apply.

I20070814-1100

- new workspace
- create new Java project P1
- delete P1, leave "Do not delete contents"
- create new Java project
=> can't create project with name P1 again

We should detect that there's no project P1 in the workspace and replace the fatal error with a warning that tells that the found project will be imported and that the settings in the wizard will not apply.
Markus, is this a dup of bug 195259?
> Markus, is this a dup of bug 195259?

It's the same issue, but a different scenario. If you reopen bug 195259, then it's OK to mark it as dup.

However, these two bugs show that the current workflow is flawed. I see 2 ways to fix it:

a) Improve the error message by telling the user to select 'Create project from existing source'. Do not clear the path in 'Directory:' when switching the radio buttons. (Currently, I first see the correct path but can't copy it. And when I switch the radio, the directory suddenly goes away and I have to hunt for it from the root of the file system.)

b) Restore the old workflow to remain consistent with other 'New * Project' wizards and to keep this simple.

I strongly prefer (b). I see the slight inconsistency with just importing the existing source although the radio is on "Create new project", but that's not a real problem, is it?
(In reply to comment #2)
> It's the same issue, but a different scenario. If you reopen bug 195259, then
> it's OK to mark it as dup.
> 
> However, these two bugs show that the current workflow is flawed. I see 2 ways
> to fix it:
> 
> a) Improve the error message by telling the user to select 'Create project from
> existing source'. Do not clear the path in 'Directory:' when switching the
> radio buttons. (Currently, I first see the correct path but can't copy it. And
> when I switch the radio, the directory suddenly goes away and I have to hunt
> for it from the root of the file system.)

Sure we can improve the error message.

See Bug 195956, it's the same behavior as on the new plugin wizard (and I don't like it also)

> b) Restore the old workflow to remain consistent with other 'New * Project'
> wizards and to keep this simple.

This would require to reopen bug 153066. What other New project wizards do you refer to? I.e. Plugin-Project wizard seams not to allow to create from existing.

> I strongly prefer (b). I see the slight inconsistency with just importing the
> existing source although the radio is on "Create new project", but that's not a
> real problem, is it?

Well it seams to confuse some users, and I can understand that. IMHO fixing bug 155835 would be the correct thing to do...

> > b) [..]
> This would require to reopen bug 153066. What other New project wizards do you
> refer to? I.e. Plugin-Project wizard seams not to allow to create from
> existing.

OK, I just looked at the New > General > Project wizard, which just imports a project into the workspace if it already was there on disk.

We should implement an easier fix for bug 153066: If a folder with the same name (but maybe different casing) already exists, we should offer to just import the existing project. It's no problem if the imported project has a different casing in the end, since we already told the user that we will import the existing project.
Created attachment 76290
fix

fix
fixed >  I20070815-1600
