- In build 20020612 Wed, 12 Jun 2002 -- 08:44 (-0400)
- Set a breakpoint in a file and run such that you are sure you hit the 
breakpoint.
- Run to completion or terminate (whichever is your preference).
- Add 2 lines of comments in the file with the breakpoint but ahead of where 
the breakpoint is (doesn't matter how far ahead - I added the 2 comment lines 
close to the top of the file and had the breakpoint in the middle).
- Re-run.  You will find that your breakpoint has moved to 2 lines previous to 
where it was in the first run.  Note that this could fall on a piece of code 
such that you will no longer hit your breakpoint.

- In build 20020612 Wed, 12 Jun 2002 -- 08:44 (-0400)
- Set a breakpoint in a file and run such that you are sure you hit the 
breakpoint.
- Run to completion or terminate (whichever is your preference).
- Add 2 lines of comments in the file with the breakpoint but ahead of where 
the breakpoint is (doesn't matter how far ahead - I added the 2 comment lines 
close to the top of the file and had the breakpoint in the middle).
- Re-run.  You will find that your breakpoint has moved to 2 lines previous to 
where it was in the first run.  Note that this could fall on a piece of code 
such that you will no longer hit your breakpoint.
Try this (with build F1 upgraded to F2)
Do the same thing but ensure that the new place for the 
breakpoint is a comment.
You will not be able to remove the breakpoint.
Modify file again so 
that the breakpoint is no longer on a comment.
You will now be able to remove the breakpoint.
In the steps below perform a save before the rerun (otherwise the behaviour 
would be as expected).

Other observations: terminating the program will move the breakpoint back to 
the original location. Why is this done?

Moving to debug for comment. This would be a fix candidate for F4.
When I insert lines, the editor moves the breakpoint as expected, but it 
appears the line number is not updated on the marker. When I close/re-open the 
editor the breakpoint is on the original line number (in the wrong place). Kai, 
is this an editor issue? Th editor should be updating marker line numbers 
shouldn't it?
The editor remembers a position for each marker. This position is hot updated. 
On save the editor writes the value of the position back to the marker.
We are not getting any marker deltas. Test case

(1) Open a java file
(2) add a breakpoint
(3) insert blank lines
(4) save

I put a breakpoint in our resource change listener that walks the delta. We 
never receive any marker deltas. The resource (.java) does appear in the 
resource delta, but the MARKER flag is not set. 

Moving to Eclipse Java-UI. Not sure where the problem lies.

The relevant code (test case) is in 
BreakpointManager.BreakpointManagerVisitor#visit(...).
Build > 20020904.
