Build id: I20070904-0800

When completing upon if(o ins, you get the instanceof template as the first proposal, resulting (at least for me) into the unwanted insertion of a complete template whereas I only meant to save the typing of the 'tanceof ' part. I noticed that the proposal of the keyword is contextual (that is, it is not proposed outside of a boolean expression - or whatever criterion that more or less matches that), but when it is available, I'd rather see it come in first position.
(I know that I can exclude the templates from the first series of proposals, but this is not the default, hence I must do it for each new workspace, and I also believe that a new user would suffer a bit before getting rid of it.)

Build id: I20070904-0800

When completing upon if(o ins, you get the instanceof template as the first proposal, resulting (at least for me) into the unwanted insertion of a complete template whereas I only meant to save the typing of the 'tanceof ' part. I noticed that the proposal of the keyword is contextual (that is, it is not proposed outside of a boolean expression - or whatever criterion that more or less matches that), but when it is available, I'd rather see it come in first position.
(I know that I can exclude the templates from the first series of proposals, but this is not the default, hence I must do it for each new workspace, and I also believe that a new user would suffer a bit before getting rid of it.)
Sorry but experience has shown that templates are more important than keywords. Since we have no clue what the 'instanceof' template will do we can't assume it's less important in your given scenario.

You can do this:
1. enable 'Insert common prefixes automatically'
2. you can then type inst + code assist
==> inserts instanceof
3. press 'Space'
4 voilà!
We could be smarter once we have more context.
I usually rename the 'instanceof' template to something like 'ifInstanceof'.
>I usually rename the 'instanceof' template to something like 'ifInstanceof'.
If we would change this it would burn long time Eclipse users that are used to the current behavior. We really need more context to do the right thing here.
OK, I've now fixed this in HEAD. We already have a hack in place to detect some sort of context using JDT Core's keyword proposals. Using this hack I can prevent that the template is boosted in the reported scenario. I cannot hide it though.
