In the Java Browser, when I right-click in the Types pane and choose 
Refactor/Move... I get a nice dialog with a list of Java packages.

I would like to be able to create a new package at this point.

In the Java Browser, when I right-click in the Types pane and choose 
Refactor/Move... I get a nice dialog with a list of Java packages.

I would like to be able to create a new package at this point.
We should honor this request when rearchitecturing move.
this is somewhat problematic - if we go down this path, then you need to be 
able to create:
- cus when moving types, 
- types when moving methods,
- source folders when moving packages,
- projects when moving packages or source folders,
- pretty much anything when you move a simple file
- and lots of things when you move a folder

but will see - maybe it can be done easily. 
low prio, though

*** Bug 41586 has been marked as a duplicate of this bug. ***
Adam,

your points are certainly valid from a point of view of consistency. I don't 
think they are equally important regarding usability, though.

Personally, it regularly happens to me that I want to move a class to a 
different (most often more general) project, but don't know the exact package. 
Then it can happen that I find out the package doesn't even yet exist. 
Currently, I need to cancel the refactoring, navigate to the project, create 
the package and restart the refactoring.

Similarly didn't happen yet to me regarding the other points.

I would therefore propose to start with a simple imlementation only for 
packages when moving types.
Adam,

so far we only got request to create a new package when moving. I tend to 
implement it for moving CUs and leave the rest of the refactorings as they are.
Moving CUs to new package and creating package is someway one atomic operation.
I don't create normally new empty package without knowing what to put there.
Normally I select multiple classes and start moving them. And then in middle of
moving I discover I don't have a right package, I must create one. So now I must
deselect classes, select package, select create new package from menu etc. And
then select again classes etc. It is so annoying :(
move to inbox - i'm too swamped right now to help here (sorry i did not move it
earlier)
Is this enhancement targeted for 3.0 ?
This got addressed for RC1.
