Version: 3.4.0
Build id: I20071213-1700

When using tools such as Maven or Ant to run your unit tests it can be quite inconvenient to use the import results action in the JUnit view, as it requires an absolute system path.  One solution is to add a context menu to files that look like test results.

I will attach a patch that adds a content type for the JUnit test result (required quite a few changes).  The patch requires a bit of cleanup (action placement and NLS)

Version: 3.4.0
Build id: I20071213-1700

When using tools such as Maven or Ant to run your unit tests it can be quite inconvenient to use the import results action in the JUnit view, as it requires an absolute system path.  One solution is to add a context menu to files that look like test results.

I will attach a patch that adds a content type for the JUnit test result (required quite a few changes).  The patch requires a bit of cleanup (action placement and NLS)
Created attachment 85761
Patch to org.eclipse.jdt.junit
I'm not hot on adding this content type as this probably won't be used often and has performance implications for all existing XML types and files (see bug 182337 for example).

I suggest to also allow importing from existing projects.


Markus please comment.

Perhaps an alternative is to use a file system/workspace selection dialog, like in the patch creation wizard?
I'm also not keen on adding an objectContribution for this. Maybe we could add it as an editor such that you can use 'Open With > JUnit View' to open test runs.
We should do this via a contribution to 'org.eclipse.ui.editors', using the 'launcher' attribute to supply an IEditorLauncher for test result files in the workspace.
Created attachment 109722
JUnit view editor launcher

This patch should work for both surefire and ant based junit reports.  It needs to define a new content type so the open with junit view is not shown on all xml files.
Thanks, released the second patch with a few tweaks to HEAD. I also added a provisional icon and will ask the designers for a professional one.
