I20080115-1740

It requires a lot of mouse clicking/key pressing to navigate to another element in the breadcrumb. Maybe we can improve that:

Martin proposes to open the child popup menu when an element is selected in a parent popup and/or when the right key is pressed. Similar we can open the parent popup when the left key is pressed in a child popup.

Philippe proposes to show some kind of a sub menu for each element in a popup (if it has a child).

I think both proposals go into the same direction, but Martins is much easier to implement for now.

I20080115-1740

It requires a lot of mouse clicking/key pressing to navigate to another element in the breadcrumb. Maybe we can improve that:

Martin proposes to open the child popup menu when an element is selected in a parent popup and/or when the right key is pressed. Similar we can open the parent popup when the left key is pressed in a child popup.

Philippe proposes to show some kind of a sub menu for each element in a popup (if it has a child).

I think both proposals go into the same direction, but Martins is much easier to implement for now.
I don't think both are equivalent, since one is about shortcuts, and mine is about navigating with no mouse click (not asking for keystrokes instead).
>when the right key is pressed
right_arrow that is.

I don't think both are equivalent
>Benno, please separate them,
(In reply to comment #1)
> I don't think both are equivalent, since one is about shortcuts, and mine is
> about navigating with no mouse click (not asking for keystrokes instead).

I didn't want to make the impression that they are equivalent. But they have the same goal: Speed up navigation. Maybe martins solution will be good enough, it's a one or two line fix. Implementing your idea is between 0.5 and 1 day of work. 
Sorry ! <g>
Created attachment 87494
martins strategy
released patch to I-Build > I20080115-1740

Philippe, please give it a try and play with it. I won't close this bug, please add your feedback, thanks.
Erichs pain points:
- Space key should expand drop downs
- Once a type/file is selected in the drop down open it in an editor and do not expand child drop down

Created attachment 87851
erichs strategy

If an element is opened (either in the breadcrumb or in a drop down) by either pressing enter or double-click the item then:
1. If the item can be revealed in the editor
     - the item is revealed
     - the focus goes into the editor
2. If the item can be opened in an editor
     - a new editor opens with the item
     - the focus is in the new editor
3. If none of the above
     if the item is a breadcrumb leaf and has childrens
       - the child pop up is opened
     if it is a inner node
       - the items pop up is opened

This sound very complex but feels quit natural
Using build id: I20080122-1600, I don't get the left/right arrow behavior mentionned in comment 6. Am I missing something ?
Though the left/right arrow trick seems appealing once I dropped the mouse and decided to use keyboard, I feel I should have a way to accomplish the same only using the mouse.

I am fine reusing the parent/child popup menus, but I'd like to be able to iterate through them only using the mouse.

Same is true for initial popup menu opening (triggered only on down arrow key). Wouldn't a right click be doable there ? And once in popup, right click to the left of an entry could open parent popup, right click to the right of an entry would go to child popup ? (left/right should then be materialized in some way)
Re: right click. I noticed it currently opens the context menu for the selected element (makes sense). Maybe open the sibling popup menu when right clicking on the icon to the left of the element ?
Created attachment 87854
mockup

(In reply to comment #9)
> Using build id: I20080122-1600, I don't get the left/right arrow behavior
> mentionned in comment 6. Am I missing something ?
> 

Sorry, It's only in HEAD: bug 216314

(In reply to comment #10)
> Though the left/right arrow trick seems appealing once I dropped the mouse and
> decided to use keyboard, I feel I should have a way to accomplish the same only
> using the mouse.
> 
> I am fine reusing the parent/child popup menus, but I'd like to be able to
> iterate through them only using the mouse.
> 
> Same is true for initial popup menu opening (triggered only on down arrow key).

A side effect of Erichs strategy is, that you can now also open the drop down with a double click, but only if the double clicked element can not be reveald/opened.

> Wouldn't a right click be doable there ? 

The right click opens the context menu. You would then have a context menu on top of the pop up?

> And once in popup, right click to the
> left of an entry could open parent popup, right click to the right of an entry
> would go to child popup ? (left/right should then be materialized in some way)

Also here, you have the context menu (see also bug 216462) plus this would be difficult to discover. How about having two buttons in the drop down, on the left side and the right side of the filter field? A left button and a right button. When pressing the button the child/parent pop up is opened? See the mockup (well I would need to make some nicer icons, but I hope you get the idea:-)
Double click feels a bit overkill... though maybe there is no better choice. What about clicking on some icon ? (e.g. triangle pointing down).

Re: mockup. Yes, this looks pretty good. I was only thinking that the left/right arrow would be closer to my selected element (on same line).
Can you only show the left/right icons on the line of the selection ? 
(In reply to comment #13)
> Double click feels a bit overkill... though maybe there is no better choice.
> What about clicking on some icon ? (e.g. triangle pointing down).

You already can.

> Re: mockup. Yes, this looks pretty good. I was only thinking that the
> left/right arrow would be closer to my selected element (on same line).
> Can you only show the left/right icons on the line of the selection ? 

Yes, I could do that, but it would be difficult to implement (alignment, resizing the popup, navigation). I like it much better if it is by the filter field:
1. The buttons are always at the same position
2. It's much easier/efficient
3. If we put it on the side of the table we need about 20 pxl space on the left side and on the right side of the table, which will look ugly.
4. At the moment going left/right opens the drop down on the left and right side, it does _not_ change the input of the breadcrumb. So it's an action which is independent of the selection.


Created attachment 88781
go left/go right buttons

Add go left/go right buttons to drop down
released go left/go right > I20080129-1400
The navigation in 3.4M5 is much slower than in Windows Vista explorer mainly due to these two items:

    *  When the selector arrow is clicked, the mouse focus should be transferred into the popup window. Right now, i can't click the selector arrow and start mouse-wheeling through the elements.
    * The element selection in the popup list should be single click and not double click.

Thanks
Kirill
(In reply to comment #17)
> The navigation in 3.4M5 is much slower than in Windows Vista explorer mainly
> due to these two items:
> 
>     *  When the selector arrow is clicked, the mouse focus should be
> transferred into the popup window. Right now, i can't click the selector arrow
> and start mouse-wheeling through the elements.

Is this on vista? I tried it and the focus is in the drop down, in the filter text. Maybe the tree should have the focus to allow mouse wheeling...

>     * The element selection in the popup list should be single click and not
> double click.

With selection you mean open, right? You can configure this: Preferences>General>Open mode

> Thanks
> Kirill

Please file separate bugs
Thanks

Created attachment 92026
tree with quick view behavior

This is a new approach for the drop downs: Use a tree with quick view behavior.

Philippe, we discussed using cascading menus with the UI designer, but the problem there is that we can have hundreds maybe thousands of elements in such a menu, and using a scrollbar in a menu would look strange. Also some hierarchies can become quite deep, we would end up with a long chain of submenus, which is a problem if the space on the screen runs out, and also if the user clicks outside of a menu by mistake: The menus would then collapse.
(cc'ing jerome who uses breadcrumbs quite a bit)

I like it, my only question is about not rendering the parent node for the current element... maybe it is ok though. Maybe first cut doesn't show them, and incrementally you could reveal them ? 
Philippe, Jerome, I'm setting this to fixed, the overall feedback for the tree drop down is good. The tree will show its full usefullness once (if:-) I'm able to fix bug 216462. 

But, feel free to reopen if you don't agree.
