[I20080325-0100]

One of the interesting flows for the breadcrumbs feature is the ability to see the context of the current element. I used to click two times on the "Link with editor" button in the package explorer for this, and I know that many others have found this "feature" as a convenient way to focus the package explorer on the currently open file.

Could the breadcrumbs feature be changed to open the drop down on a single (left) click instead of double-click? This would make it easier to see the context of the clicked element, without having to position the mouse over the triangle, or having to double-click. A single right click should probably still open the context menu without also opening the drop down.

Also, it would be useful if a context menu was available on the elements in the dropdown, for things like "Open With...", "Delete", "Refresh" and others.

[I20080325-0100]

One of the interesting flows for the breadcrumbs feature is the ability to see the context of the current element. I used to click two times on the "Link with editor" button in the package explorer for this, and I know that many others have found this "feature" as a convenient way to focus the package explorer on the currently open file.

Could the breadcrumbs feature be changed to open the drop down on a single (left) click instead of double-click? This would make it easier to see the context of the clicked element, without having to position the mouse over the triangle, or having to double-click. A single right click should probably still open the context menu without also opening the drop down.

Also, it would be useful if a context menu was available on the elements in the dropdown, for things like "Open With...", "Delete", "Refresh" and others.
This bug here is about single-click on a breadcrumb bar item. For your 'Also' item we already have bug 216462.
I think we need to play with the single click a bit to see how it feels. Now that we have the expand on single click behavior in the drop downs we can say that it is consistent to also have the 'expand' on single click behavior for the breadcrumb items. 

But I'm still not sure if this is what the user expects: Note that the focus is transfered into the drop down when it opens, which means that the breadcrumb item is not selected on single left click anymore. To select a breadcrumb item with the left mouse button it is then required to single click it and then press esc.
>I think we need to play with the single click a bit to see how it feels.
Agree. I "think" prefer single-click too. Boris, are you using single or double-click open strategy?

Maybe during M7 we could tie it to the strategy, so that people can play around with this.

I am using the default (double-click to open). Tying it to the preference would be temporary, right?
Right.
Created attachment 97035
fix

Single left click to open drop down. I too think that's better.
fixed > I20080415-1646
I don't like this at all. I didn't enable single click mode and I expect that a single click just selects an item like everywhere else.

I can accept the single-click behavior in the quick views and the breadcrumb dropdowns, because there I see that the selection changes when I move the mouse over an item.

In the breadcrumbs bar, this makes it hard to interact with an item, e.g.
- can't select and press delete key to delete
- can't select a project and the do Project > Clean...
- can't drag and drop
>I can accept the single-click behavior in the quick views and the breadcrumb
>dropdowns, because there I see that the selection changes when I move the mouse
>over an item.
We also need to give feedback when moving over the item - not just the >. AFAIK Vista does this too, plus shows the | separator. Benno, can you do that (I'm not sure yet regarding the separator though - need to see it first)?
(In reply to comment #8)
> I don't like this at all. I didn't enable single click mode and I expect that a
> single click just selects an item like everywhere else.
> 
> I can accept the single-click behavior in the quick views and the breadcrumb
> dropdowns, because there I see that the selection changes when I move the mouse
> over an item.

I'm sorry guys, but I have to agree with Markus, I _hate_ the singe click behavior. I've already failed twice because I clicked on an item and pressed delete. Also with the new behavior we lost a feature, before: left to select, right for context menu, double-click to open. But now selection is not possible anymore (easily). IMHO double-clicking is not much of a burden for the user, especially not if he gets an additional feature in exchange.
There are also some technical problems, like staying tool tips and flickering.
So, I will revert this change for M7, unless someone starts to scream very loud now...

> In the breadcrumbs bar, this makes it hard to interact with an item, e.g.
> - can't select and press delete key to delete
> - can't select a project and the do Project > Clean...
> - can't drag and drop

Does not work anyway yet: bug 213339

(In reply to comment #10)
> So, I will revert this change for M7, unless someone starts to scream very loud
> now...

SCREAM! Was that loud enough? :-)

I would like to understand why it is important to select a breadcrumb entry by single left click. I don't understand why you would click on an entry and then press the Delete key. I though the main purpose of the breadcrumb feature was a navigational aid - seeing the context of where you are, and being able to navigate to elements that are close to it. Is this not the main function of the breadcrumb feature?
(In reply to comment #11)
> (In reply to comment #10)
> > So, I will revert this change for M7, unless someone starts to scream very loud
> > now...
> 
> SCREAM! Was that loud enough? :-)
> 
> I would like to understand why it is important to select a breadcrumb entry by
> single left click. I don't understand why you would click on an entry and then
> press the Delete key. I though the main purpose of the breadcrumb feature was a
> navigational aid - seeing the context of where you are, and being able to
> navigate to elements that are close to it. Is this not the main function of the
> breadcrumb feature?

For me the main purpose of the breadcrumb is to see the context of where you are. The other useful thing is that it is possible to invoke actions on the elements in the context. Navigation is not the main purpose, for me.
There are two usage patterns for me how I invoke actions: 
1. If I know the keybinding I left click the item and use the keybinding (delete/alt-shift-r/...) 
2. If I don't know the keybinding I right click the item and select the action from the context menu.
Number one is broken now. I think I use 1. because it is usually the fastest way to invoke an action, or maybe just because I'm used to it

I would like to understand why it is a problem to double-click an item? It only needs a tenths of a second more time then a single click...
Why is 'left button' not selecting anymore? Why putting the focus to the list? Maybe the dropdown should show up like code assist: No focus, but up/down changes the selection.
Wow, that scream reached Zurich ;-) We will look at this.
Created attachment 97714
fix

(In reply to comment #13)
> Why is 'left button' not selecting anymore? Why putting the focus to the list?
> Maybe the dropdown should show up like code assist: No focus, but up/down
> changes the selection.

That's very clever!
fixed > I20080422-0800

Single click opens drop down without focus. Give it a try...
Looks nice!
I agree this is a better solution.  The purpose of the breadcrumb is primarily to support navigation (and secondary, to support actions on the elements).  Thus the primary actions should be the easiest and most obvious.  This change supports that, aiding user exploration of this as a navigational metaphor.

However, there's still something that isn't quite right.  I'll try to enter a bug report when I've thought about it more.  Of course now using the context menu is awkward, but I think the root of the issue is that its not clear what the controls are.  They are now almost, but not quite, dropdown combos.  Before they were more like a row of single line lists with dropdown arrow controls in between (which is even odder).  As a result its not clear how to interact with them, and we can't rely on existing interaction metaphors we're used to.

This is good for 3.4 but it'll need another pass for 3.5.
Actually our focus was primarily to provide context about the current cursor location. Which method, type, package or project.
Secondary it was the action on the elements, as we often had to reveal the current element in the package explorer to start actions like 'update', 'commit'...
And navigation was, for us, least important. 
So I hope we have found now a solution where all three purposes are equally well served. But of course suggestion for further improvements are most welcome. 
Agree about context being of primary task important, was lumping that in with the general "navigation" task (1 - context of where you are, 2 - ability to go elsewhere).

Breadcrumbs though typically stop at context/navigation and don't support object operations.  Its great ours does, but I only comment that that might be driving expectations of simple things like what left-click does.  If you think that object operations are more important than sibling context or navigation then we may have chosen left-click wrong, although given its presentation as a breadcrumb I'd guess that we're now matching people's expectations.


Thanks for finding a solution - I am starting to really like the breadcrumb feature, and I already miss it in non-Java editors!
