[I20080325-0100]

The breadcrumb line has a white background, but the dropdown has a yellow background color. This and the fact that the drop down opens with gap of about five pixels between it and the breadcrumb line, makes it look as if they did not belong together as one feature.

I would try getting rid of the gap, and either making the drop down white, or the item above it in the breadcrumb yellow while the drop down is open, or some other way that visually links the drop down and the corresponding entry in the breadcrumbs line above it.

[I20080325-0100]

The breadcrumb line has a white background, but the dropdown has a yellow background color. This and the fact that the drop down opens with gap of about five pixels between it and the breadcrumb line, makes it look as if they did not belong together as one feature.

I would try getting rid of the gap, and either making the drop down white, or the item above it in the breadcrumb yellow while the drop down is open, or some other way that visually links the drop down and the corresponding entry in the breadcrumbs line above it.
Also, why is the triangle not rotated by 90 degrees while the drop down is showing? Clicking on the triangle again should rotate it back and hide the drop down.
Both (gap and rotating) are good points. Benno, we should discuss this again with the UI designer for M7. I already pointed out that the drop down is too far to the right when popping up.
See also bug 223938.
(In reply to comment #2)
> I already pointed out that the drop down is too
> far to the right when popping up.

Benno said that it didn't look good, but I'm mentioning anyway: if the popup opened a little bit further to the left, you might be able to align the icon in the breadcrumb line with the icons in the dropdown.

Created attachment 93615
white background and no gap

Released for M6: White background and no gap

Align with breadcrumb item might look good in combination with rotating triangle.
fixed > I20080415-1646

Aligning drop down items with breadcrumb item
