When I create a test method like testFoo in a JUnit test case, it would be 
great to have a possibility to navigate to the corresponding method in the 
class to be tested, i.e. to the method foo(). Something with the right mouse 
key. Very simple, not for all cases of overloaded methods.

When I create a test method like testFoo in a JUnit test case, it would be 
great to have a possibility to navigate to the corresponding method in the 
class to be tested, i.e. to the method foo(). Something with the right mouse 
key. Very simple, not for all cases of overloaded methods.
Moving to JDT as this is a JUnit request.
when I write a testFoo method then you will likely call the foo method in the 
body and you can use F3 to navigate to the method. Isn't this enough.

navigating from a method to is corresponding tests would also be a useful 
navigation.
You are right, navigating from test case method to the method which should be
tested is simple (just press f3), but from method foo() to the method testFoo()
in the test class would be very cool. 
The current JUnit plug-in just had to remember the methods and the corresponding
test methods and classes. Shouldn't be tooooo difficult I hope, but that would
be really very helpful.
However when one had the possibility to move from foo() to testFoo(), then again
it would be nice to have - maybe the same - function key or popup menu to go
back to foo(), and not to look for the call of x.foo() in my test method. 
Would be faster: Just switch to test case and back to regular method and back to
test case...:-)
>The current JUnit plug-in just had to remember the methods and 
>the corresponding
>test methods and classes. Shouldn't be tooooo difficult I hope, but that would
>be really very helpful.
"remembering" would be difficult. What I could imagine is to do a search for 
test methods: find references to a method in classes that implement 
Test/TestCase. This would indeed not be that hard. This can be ambigious and we 
would have to represent a set of methods.

>then again
>it would be nice to have - maybe the same - function key or popup menu to go
>back to foo()
agreed, and this is why in 2.1 there is webbrowser style back/forward support.
there is now Navigate>Go to>Referring Tests.


