- Open a java file
- Right-click -> Source -> Externalize strings

This dialog has several problems:

1. The dialog is modal. It should be nonmodal to make it easier to - for example - search your source file to to see how a format string is used elsewhere.

2. If you select an Eclipse message bundle from the combo box, the prefix does not change from a "." to a "_", and needs to be changed manually by the user.

3. The default selection in the combo box always points to a bundle in the same package. If the user is using one-bundle-per-plugin rather than one-bundle-per-package, this means they always need to change the defaults. The default should point to an existing message bundle if one can be found - that way both one-bundle-per-package and one-bundle-per-plugin users will rarely need to change the default.

I'm attaching a patch that fixes all three issues.

- Open a java file
- Right-click -> Source -> Externalize strings

This dialog has several problems:

1. The dialog is modal. It should be nonmodal to make it easier to - for example - search your source file to to see how a format string is used elsewhere.

2. If you select an Eclipse message bundle from the combo box, the prefix does not change from a "." to a "_", and needs to be changed manually by the user.

3. The default selection in the combo box always points to a bundle in the same package. If the user is using one-bundle-per-plugin rather than one-bundle-per-package, this means they always need to change the defaults. The default should point to an existing message bundle if one can be found - that way both one-bundle-per-package and one-bundle-per-plugin users will rarely need to change the default.

I'm attaching a patch that fixes all three issues.
Created attachment 95118
Fix for all three issues

Patch that fixes all three issues.
Sorry, the patch does not want to be applied (has errors/conflicts). Probably because Eclipse doesn't know the 'Jazz' patch format.

>1. The dialog is modal. 
We won't change this as currently the dialog isn't able to reconcile changes made outside. Especially, we won't change the generic RefactoringWizardDialog which is used for all other refactorings.

>2. If you select an Eclipse message bundle from the combo box, the prefix does
>not change from a "." to a "_", and needs to be changed manually by the user.
Fixed.

>3. The default selection in the combo box always points to...
This is bug 62522. I'd be happy to see a patch for that.

Marking as fixed as we won't do 1), 2 got fixed and 3) is covered by another bug.
> Probably because Eclipse doesn't know the 'Jazz' patch format.

It knows enough to apply it properly. Just apply it like you would a unified diff generated relative to the workspace root.

> We won't change this as currently the dialog isn't able to reconcile
> changes made outside

I'd argue that:
1. This feature is not required in order for the nonmodal wizard to be useful.
2. The lack of this feature should not cause any more user confusion than an external editor or Eclipse editor with unshared model would, and most users will be familiar with plenty of examples of both.
3. Opening a modal dialog doesn't prevent outside changes anyway in our world with background jobs that can modify the resource tree.

However, since this is the least-important aspect of the patch, I wouldn't want to block the other features on this one issue.

I'll look into a patch for issue 3.
Actually, bug 62522 seems to request that the previous values be remembered in the Configure Accessor page whereas my patch searches for existing accessors and selects them by default in the combo. 

I'm not sure if these are the same thing.
