Due to legal implications, reference to JDT should read "Java development tools"

Due to legal implications, reference to JDT should read "Java development tools"
Created attachment 104441
patch for jdt user/isv plugins

As you see from the patch, we are quite inconsistent with our naming:
- The Java development toolkit
- Java development tools 
- Eclipse Java development tooling

The patch changes all of them to not use it non-capitalized.
What's ugly is to have titles non-capitalized.
Indeed, inconsistencies are not too happy. The original request was to fix capitalized forms of "Java development tools" to be lowercased.

I start thinking that "Eclipse Java Tooling" would be a better replacement, though it would alter some sentences. 

Let me do some investigation with our legal people.
Created attachment 104449
Patch for jdt features
re: comment 3
>I start thinking that "Eclipse Java Tooling" would be a better replacement, though it would alter some sentences. 
This is not a viable alternative.

We have to go with removing capitalization.

Also our user guide title should read: "Java developement user guide" (upper->lower conversion).

For now, we would not perform changes outside the doc, readme, build notes, etc... since the ripples in feature names is non trivial for update sites etc... 
Created attachment 104644
updated patch for jdt-doc plug-ins

also fixes 'Java development user guide'
Created attachment 104646
patch for platform-doc plugins
patch for jdt-doc plug-ins released > 20080612

Dani, can you release the platform-doc plug-in changes?
Created attachment 104648
patch for all non-doc plugins

Changes the plugin and feature names (jdt.core not included)
Doc and buildnotes changes should be released.

Reminder: Plugin names, feature names are not yet approved (due to ripples).
I also released changed to buildnotes in jdt.ui and jdt.junit > 20080612
Committed platform doc changes (renamed one instance that used 'tooling' to 'tools').
We should defer plugin/feature naming changes post 3.4.

Marking as fixed, all doc changes and changes in build notes released. No changes to plug-in names (will file a new bug for 3.5)
Filed bug 237090 for the outstanding issues to be fixed in 3.5.
