Build id: I20080609-1311

Given an existing project, switching compiler compliance from 1.4 to 1.6 is not recommending adapting JRE accordingly (though there may be some installed one already).

Conversely, switching JRE level is not suggesting adjustment in compiler compliance.

Build id: I20080609-1311

Given an existing project, switching compiler compliance from 1.4 to 1.6 is not recommending adapting JRE accordingly (though there may be some installed one already).

Conversely, switching JRE level is not suggesting adjustment in compiler compliance.
Created attachment 104841
Current compliance setting page

Just an idea

What if we added a new checkbox (checked by default) near the one telling 'Use default compliance settings'.

This new checkbox would say 'Use associated JRE automatically' (it could even indicate intended one, use the EE recommendation to make it more informative to user).

If the checkbox is enabled, then it would silently switch the JRE for me, and if it could not find a matching JRE, then it would prompt me through a dialog (asking to keep current, or offer installed JRE/buildpath dialog openings).

If the checkbox is disabled, then no change from today. The bottom indication about disconnect between compliance and JRE should be made a bit more proeminent (I actually missed it)
There is a message on the compliance page that tells you that your JRE is not the same as your compliance.

Our problem is that the JRE/Compliance information is spread over 3 pages:
- The build path defines defines which JRE we have
- The JRE page defines what the JRE really is
- The compliance page should be compatible to the selected JRE

I believe you would want to configure everything on the Build path page.
I am not sure about using the buildpath page instead... since when constructing bundles for instance, the buildpath is being managed entirely for me; so the only place I would worry is compliance page or EE page (and both should be maintained consistent btw).
EEs are now first class citizen.
