Build ID: I20080617-2000

Steps To Reproduce:
1. Start a clean eclipse and, a clean workspace.
2. Make a java project containing any package or class file.
3. Open a java editor
4. Try and use ctrl+space multiple times to cycle the options.
5. Compare the list of items that it scrolled through to the one in the preferences page (Java->Editor->Content Assist->Advanced.
6. It appears to be the list for items that should be appended to the default list instead of the ones to cycle through.

More information:
Eclipse Ganymede 3.4 final java package: eclipse-java-ganymede-win32.zip

Workaround:
If you enter the prefrences page and apply (click the apply button) the content assist cycling will act normal again BUT only for the current session, that means restart eclipse and the bug is back.

Build ID: I20080617-2000

Steps To Reproduce:
1. Start a clean eclipse and, a clean workspace.
2. Make a java project containing any package or class file.
3. Open a java editor
4. Try and use ctrl+space multiple times to cycle the options.
5. Compare the list of items that it scrolled through to the one in the preferences page (Java->Editor->Content Assist->Advanced.
6. It appears to be the list for items that should be appended to the default list instead of the ones to cycle through.

More information:
Eclipse Ganymede 3.4 final java package: eclipse-java-ganymede-win32.zip

Workaround:
If you enter the prefrences page and apply (click the apply button) the content assist cycling will act normal again BUT only for the current session, that means restart eclipse and the bug is back.
Can you:
1. attach a picture of the preference page
2. try plain Eclipse SDK (not Ganymede package - I can't reproduce it there).
Created attachment 106107
Screen shot showing eclipse ganymede java package prefrences page when first started (clean workspace)
Created attachment 106108
Screen shot showing eclipse ganymede java package prefrences page after using content assist for the first time
Created attachment 106110
Screen shot showing eclipse ganymede sdk preferences page
When trying to take the preferences page screenshots i also noticed another strange behivor.
When i lunch eclipse (java package) with a clean workspace the preferences page looks like the first screen shot (Screen shot showing eclipse ganymede java package prefrences page when first started (clean workspace)), but after using content assist for the first time in the workspace it looks like the second screen shot (Screen shot showing eclipse ganymede java package prefrences page after using content assist for the first time).

Indeed i cannot reproduce this under Eclipse ganymede sdk (eclipse-SDK-3.4-win32.zip) i just hope this is what you meant by eclipse sdk.

I Guess its some other project or something else in the package that creates this bug, the question is what and how can we discover it.
Does cycling work if the next time?

Moving to Mylyn. Looks like some preference tweaking is not working as expected.
If by next time you mean later usage of content assist then
no this allways happens when launching eclipse even after the first launch, the only way to make it behave normally is the Workaround in the bug description.
and again it only lasts for the current session, that means the next time you lunch eclipse the bug is back.

The prefrences page does stay as it looks in the second screen shot (Screen shot showing eclipse ganymede java package prefrences page after using content assist for the first time) 
As in it only looks like it looks in the first screen shot, in the first lunch of eclipse with a clean workspace BEFORE using content assist for the first time.
I mean does cycling work the second time you use code assist (ctrl+space)?
yes, the bug happen anytime when using content assist whether its the second, third or fourth time you execute it,
that is no matter how many times i execute content assist it allways cycles through options not in the prefrences.

Actuelly i noticed something new now, it cycles through default, templates, swt templates (which is corret acording to the prefrences) and then through all sorts of other displays with "(Focused)" at the end of their name even if they arent selected in the prefrences.
I can reproduce the problem with Ganymede SR2 and the latest Galileo build. From stepping through the code I think the following is happening:

CompletionProposalCategory.isSeparateCommand() determines if a category is shown when cycling through proposals. By default the corresponding field is initialized to true.

CompletionProposalComputerRegistry.getCategories() only invokes CompletionProposalCategory.setSeparateCommand() if the category is listed in the PreferenceConstants.CODEASSIST_CATEGORY_ORDER preference. By default this is not the case for Mylyn categories which means the default value of the flag is used which is true.

If the preference dialog is opened the flag on existing CompletionProposalCategory instances is set but settings are not persisted unless the order for cycling through content assist categories is changed.

Daniel, are we missing something in Mylyn to properly initialize the order / separate command flag for our completion proposal categories?

Someone, to work-around the bug: Use the Up/Down buttons to modify the cycling order once under Preferences > Java  > Editor > Content Assist > Advanced. After that cycling should be properly initialized and also work after restarting.
Created attachment 127439
mylyn/context/zip
Moving back to JDT, I believe CompletionProposalCategory.fIsSeparateCommand should be initialized to true. Daniel, please advise if we are missing anything in Mylyn.
The problem was not fIsSeparateCommand (it is true by default) but wrong init code for the sort order in the proposal category and on the pref page.

Fixed in HEAD.
Available in builds > N20090322-2000.
