Build id: I20080812-0800

I have a project with compiler compliance set to 1.4.  I had a reference in my code to "Status.OK_STATUS", where the class Status was not imported.  With the cursor inside "OK_STATUS" I did Ctrl+Shift+M with the intention to import the Status class. Instead it added a static import to the field Status.OK_STATUS. This is illegal based on my compiler compliance so the resulting source code had a compile error.  

It should not insert a static import when the compliance is below 1.5. Ideally it could import the class in this case, but I understand this would lead to inconsistent behaviour depending on compliance setting, so alternatively it should not import anything.

Build id: I20080812-0800

I have a project with compiler compliance set to 1.4.  I had a reference in my code to "Status.OK_STATUS", where the class Status was not imported.  With the cursor inside "OK_STATUS" I did Ctrl+Shift+M with the intention to import the Status class. Instead it added a static import to the field Status.OK_STATUS. This is illegal based on my compiler compliance so the resulting source code had a compile error.  

It should not insert a static import when the compliance is below 1.5. Ideally it could import the class in this case, but I understand this would lead to inconsistent behaviour depending on compliance setting, so alternatively it should not import anything.
>I have a project with compiler compliance set to 1.4.  I had a reference in my
>code to "Status.OK_STATUS", where the class Status was not imported.  With the
>cursor inside "OK_STATUS" I did Ctrl+Shift+M with the intention to import the
>Status class. 
Can you provide a code example? I cannot reproduce this for the case where Status is not imported. However, I can reproduce if 'Status' is already imported, i.e. if the file has:
    import org.eclipse.core.runtime.Status;

In that case Ctrl+Shift+M inserts:
    import static org.eclipse.core.runtime.Status.OK_STATUS;

Now, I'd say this is a minor issue because normally you don't invoke 'Add Import' on code that already compiles.

In my scenario (i.e. if import is already there) the behavior for 1.5 is also wrong as it adds the static import and leaves the existing import, resulting in an unused import warning.
>In my scenario (i.e. if import is already there) the behavior for 1.5 is also
>wrong as it adds the static import and leaves the existing import, resulting in
>an unused import warning.
See bug 77595.
Fix is trivial. But I'd still interested in your reported scenario.

Available in builds > N20080820-2000.
