Created attachment 114847
online help topics about keyboard shortcuts in Java editor and debugger

We (IBM Rational) have written some online help topics containing convenient tables of keyboard shortcuts for parts of JDT(Java Editor, Debugger). We usually include them as part of our accessibility information. 

As part of an effort to stop re-documenting Eclipse (and instead just point to Eclipse docs) we're removing these from our products' online help. If you can use them, please do so. The related links may require some adjusting, and they may be a little bit back-level (probably last updated around Eclipse 3.2).

I'll attach a zip of the HTML files. Let me know if you have questions about them.

Created attachment 114847
online help topics about keyboard shortcuts in Java editor and debugger

We (IBM Rational) have written some online help topics containing convenient tables of keyboard shortcuts for parts of JDT(Java Editor, Debugger). We usually include them as part of our accessibility information. 

As part of an effort to stop re-documenting Eclipse (and instead just point to Eclipse docs) we're removing these from our products' online help. If you can use them, please do so. The related links may require some adjusting, and they may be a little bit back-level (probably last updated around Eclipse 3.2).

I'll attach a zip of the HTML files. Let me know if you have questions about them.
Thanks!
Kari, it would be great if you could provide a patch for
  org.eclipse.platform.doc.user/reference/ref-keybindings.htm
which already contains some of your work. Could you do this? Do you know how to make a patch?

We would need a new document for the Java editor key bindings. Start by copying
  org.eclipse.platform.doc.user/reference/ref-keybindings.htm
to
  org.eclipse.jdt.doc.user/reference/ref-keybindings.htm

Kari, please tell us whether you plan to do this or not.
Ping ;-)
Doc pass comes closer.
Hey ... sorry for the silence. I'll try to do this today. Will require learning to make a patch, which I should learn anyhow. :)
Created attachment 135435
new keybindings topic, plus update to TOC

Patch for your consideration.
The patch looks quite good but can you please provide a new patch that uses the identical action names as used in the IDE (e.g. use 'Open Type' instead of 'Open type'). Thanks.
Created attachment 136007
New patch with correct capitalization

Set all of the commands to headline-style capitalization.
Did you intentionally sort them by key binding instead of name? I would probably sort it by name. This makes it easier to e.g. find the alternative key bindings for Content Assist.

Some commands do not exist in the SDK:
- Next Problem
- Previous Problem
- Relaunch Last

Some key bindings are wrong (3.5):
- Display
- Inspect

I would add this one:
- Step Into Selection [Ctrl+F5]
And some minor issue:

Copyright should be 2009.
Title should be: List of Key Bindings
Created attachment 136571
patch with suggested fixes

Other topics in the help use sentence-style capitalization, so I think the title should be "List of key bindings"; okay with you?

Updated copyright. Removed the three you mentioned. Added/updated the other three you mentioned. Reordered alphabetically by name.
>Other topics in the help use sentence-style capitalization, so I think the
>title should be "List of key bindings"; okay with you?
Yes, you're right.

Committed to HEAD with some corrections.
Available in builds >= I20090525-2000.

Thanks again.
I released a few fixes for this:
- entry in topics_Reference.xml was completely broken
  -> 'References' didn't even show up any more in help!
- made title unique
- added link to workbench document
- fixed shortcuts for Undo/Redo
- fixed formatting
- removed bogus styles
