Dear JDT APT,
there's a problem in Eclipse 3.2 and 3.3 that makes APT properties page invisible when using non-english language and service packs. (This causes that whole APT user interface is inaccessible for user)

The filter in properties page extension point is externalized and translated by all language packs. This breaks that filter in in non-english environments.

Attached is patch.
Original issue was first observed by our customer in v. 3.2.2

Dear JDT APT,
there's a problem in Eclipse 3.2 and 3.3 that makes APT properties page invisible when using non-english language and service packs. (This causes that whole APT user interface is inaccessible for user)

The filter in properties page extension point is externalized and translated by all language packs. This breaks that filter in in non-english environments.

Attached is patch.
Original issue was first observed by our customer in v. 3.2.2
Created attachment 119264
patch
Steps to reproduce: (e.g for Eclipse 3.2.2)
1. install nl1 pack
2. start eclipse -nl es
3. create a project, go to Project properties and note there's no APT properties page

Issue is fixed in Eclipse 3.4. Tested with babel spanish translation.
(In reply to comment #2)
> Steps to reproduce: (e.g for Eclipse 3.2.2)
> 1. install nl1 pack
> 2. start eclipse -nl es
> 3. create a project, go to Project properties and note there's no APT
> properties page
> 
> Issue is fixed in Eclipse 3.4. Tested with babel spanish translation.


Jacek, thanks for your work on this.

I am unclear on the status of this bug.  When you say "Issue is fixed in Eclipse 3.4", do you mean that no action is required for 3.4 (and 3.5)?  If so, can I close this bug as "fixed", without committing your patch?  There are no further 3.3.x releases planned at this point.
Per Philippe's request I have reviewed this patch and committed it to 3.3 stream.

A fix is not necessary in 3.4+ because the filter is implemented differently.
Tagged as R33x_v20081217-1900 and updated map files.
Walter - could this also be fixed in 3.2.x stream ? Apparently the original problem appeared there, and should be fixed there as well.
Reopening to patch in 3.2.2
Fixed and released in R_3_2_maintenance branch.
