When copying a resource from a location to another location, where a resource with the same name already exists, a window is shown with title: "Element exists in Destination". It has "Skip", "Skip All", and "Cancel" buttons.

1. Shoudn't "exists" in the title be "Exists" with capital E?
2. Why isn't there any replace, or replace all button?

When copying a resource from a location to another location, where a resource with the same name already exists, a window is shown with title: "Element exists in Destination". It has "Skip", "Skip All", and "Cancel" buttons.

1. Shoudn't "exists" in the title be "Exists" with capital E?
2. Why isn't there any replace, or replace all button?
I don't see the Skip/Skip All buttons. I tried copying a file from one folder to another folder. Is this the use case you are referring to?
I'm performing the operation on Package Explorer view. Just copy a folder from one project to another, where the same folder exists.
BTW, I'm using Eclipse 3.5m4 (I20081211-1908).

I'm pretty sure the capitalization is correct...the eclipse UI guidelines state:

"Use Headline style capitalization for menus, tooltip and all titles, including those used for windows, dialogs, tabs, column headings and push buttons. Capitalize the first and last words, and all nouns, pronouns, adjectives, verbs and adverbs.  Do not include ending punctuation."

(In reply to comment #3)
> I'm pretty sure the capitalization is correct...the eclipse UI guidelines
> state:
> 
> "Use Headline style capitalization for menus, tooltip and all titles, including
> those used for windows, dialogs, tabs, column headings and push buttons.
> Capitalize the first and last words, and all nouns, pronouns, adjectives, verbs
> and adverbs.  Do not include ending punctuation."
> 

So exists should become "Exists".

Mohsen, your English is better than mine, 'exists' is indeed a verb...;-).

Passing to JDT since they own the dialog's title...

Fixed in HEAD.
Available in builds > N20090210-2000.
