Build id: 200211130841

Resouce Navigation action set should be enabled on java perspectives by default.

Build id: 200211130841

Resouce Navigation action set should be enabled on java perspectives by default.
Can only be done by JDT.  It would be good to do this for M3, so I'm marking as 
major.


Actually this is a nice idea but raises some issues:

- the resource naviagtor action set the Go To->Resource is enabled for all view
  parts whereas Go To->Type and Go To->Package is only enabled for the package
  view. The reason for this is that Go To->Type inside the type hierarchy should
  show the type in the type hierarchy and not in the package view. So JDT's 
  GoTo actions are retargable actions.

  Wouldn't it make sense to retarget GoTo->Resource action as well since other
  views might show resources as well.

- Open Resource shows all resource including the derived resources. So you are
  able to select a class file from the bin folder which currently cause an
  error dialog to pop up saying that the resource can't be opened.

  IMO Open Resource should be retargable as well and JDT should at least 
  suppress derived class files in the dialog since it doesn't make sense to
  open them.

Given these two issues and the fact that the user can enable the action set "by 
hand" I would like to postpone this for M4.

Nick, any comments.
Lowering priority.
See bug 26222
We will make Go To Resource retargetable (bug 26222).

We don't want to make Open Resource retargetable, since it should work 
independent of which part is active (as does Open Type).  We can think about 
ideas for filtering though.

OK to defer to M4.

Note that this action set also appears if you open the Navigator.

Once the Go To Resource action is retargetable, JDT UI can provide a customized 
dialog that filters out Java resources (*.java and *.class).
To do so the ResourceListSelectionDialog should be surfaced as API and offer a 
filter.

Entered bug 26723 for making ResourceListSelectionDialog API. Need to determine 
what the API should look like exactly.
Create GotoResourceAction and added resource naviagtion action set to the java 
perspective.
Relased for integration build I20021203
