I20090127-2000

The *.jardesc generated from the normal JAR file exporter contains this line:

    <fatjar builder="org.eclipse.jdt.ui.plain_jar_builder" launchConfig=""/>

I don't see the benefit of this, especially since the Runnable JAR exporter does not support .jardesc files.

I20090127-2000

The *.jardesc generated from the normal JAR file exporter contains this line:

    <fatjar builder="org.eclipse.jdt.ui.plain_jar_builder" launchConfig=""/>

I don't see the benefit of this, especially since the Runnable JAR exporter does not support .jardesc files.
Benno or Ferenc, do you know more about this?
In the beginning (bug 83258) the "Runnable Jar File Exporter" was planned to be an extension of the standard "Jar File Exporter". There was a select-box to choose the jar-builder which should be used to create the JAR.
Default was the PlainJarBuilder for normal jars, for runnable jars the FatJarBuilder could be selected. There also has been an ExtensionPoint for Plug-Ins to provide an own Builder and an implementation for the OneJarBuilder which provides a class-loader for Jar-in-Jar was written by me.

But then we decided to create an separate wizard for the "Runnable Jar File Exporter". The new Wizard should be easy to use and as this it is not very powerfull. For example, it is not possible to select or deselect single files which should be included or excluded. One of my ideas was to create a jardesc file from the "Runnable Jar File Exporter" and open it with the "Jar File Exporter", so that advanced users can customize their JARs.

But the jardesc files are not supported by the "Runnable Jar File Exporter" now. Instead of this ANT-Files can be generated which then can be customized.
So I see no need to support this entry (builder / launch_config) in the jardesc files any longer. 
When removing this entry we have to be compatible with old jardesc files which have an "fatjar" entry (class org.eclipse.jdt.internal.ui.jarpackager.JarPackageReader methode xmlReadFatjar).

I will have a look at this together with some other refactorings - today a lot of bugs where assigned to me  :) 





Maybe we want to support jardescs for the runnable jar exporter in future versions? But until then I guess we can remove the builder id from the jardesc.
Created attachment 125054
patch removing fatjar entry from jardesc files

The Patch removes the writing and reading of the fatjar entry when creating / opening jardesc files.
No special handling for reading is necessary, because unknown tags are simply ignored, nice!
>nice!
ok ;-)
Thanks, released to HEAD.
