I am unable to move a file from one folder to another in the package explorer
view by simply clicking on it and dragging it. I also am unable to cut from the
package explorer, so I have to copy, paste, and then go back and delete.

I am unable to move a file from one folder to another in the package explorer
view by simply clicking on it and dragging it. I also am unable to cut from the
package explorer, so I have to copy, paste, and then go back and delete.
Todd, which Linux version are you using GTK ot Motif. Your described scenarios 
work under Windows.
I am using the GTK version.
Cut/Paste isn't implemented inside Eclipse for files (it doesn't work in the 
resource navigator either). But moving files via D&D work. Do you have a 
reproducable case where D&D fails.

Sorry for the confusion but I first thought it might be a Linux related issue. 


I have a project with numerous files and directories open in the package
navigator. I'm using the Java Project perspective. I hold down on the left mouse
while the cursor is over a scrapbook page that I created and I attempt to move
it up to a new folder. When I release the left mouse button, nothing happens.

Also, could we move cut/paste to a new feature request then since it isn't
implemented? Pretty basic functionality.
Unfortunatelly cut/paste isn't basic funtionality. We investigate to implement 
it. See the SWT bucket why this is hard. The summary is:

- you need UI feedback (grayed icon on cut)
- you need a communication like the one between drop target and drag source
  since 
  o cut/paste can be cancel by pressing ESC
  o paste target can veto.

To do so you need some OS/Window System support.
My apologies, it looks like I was oversimplifying a little bit. Regardless, it
would be nice functionality to have. Also, please keep me updated on the drag
and drop issue.

Thanks,
TK
Todd, I test various D&D scenarios on the latest GTK drop and it works. Are you 
using 2.0.2. In older GTK versions there where problems with D&D. Can you 
please try the latest integration build.
The drag and drop works in the integration build. Thanks!
