I'm not sure when this changed, but under build I1119, source attachments MUST be defined through classpath variables. Though this makes sense for once case (system libraries) it doesn't work well for project-libraries.

In one project I work on, we include the source and binary for the libraries we use inside the project itself. To attach the source, I must define a classpath variable pointing to my own project to make this work. I should be able to refer to the source relative to the workspace.

Also, the root path for the source must also be defined through a classpath variable. The UI still indicates that a simple path can be entered, but results in an error message. Again, this is not necessary for most libraries: a simple path string will suffice.

I'm not sure when this changed, but under build I1119, source attachments MUST be defined through classpath variables. Though this makes sense for once case (system libraries) it doesn't work well for project-libraries.

In one project I work on, we include the source and binary for the libraries we use inside the project itself. To attach the source, I must define a classpath variable pointing to my own project to make this work. I should be able to refer to the source relative to the workspace.

Also, the root path for the source must also be defined through a classpath variable. The UI still indicates that a simple path can be entered, but results in an error message. Again, this is not necessary for most libraries: a simple path string will suffice.
Upon further investigation the requirement to used a classpath variable for the source location is only required for libraries that themselves are referred to through classpath variable. This part makes sense.

However, I still believe that having to specify the root path through a classpath variable is an unnecessary restriction.
This issue will become obsolete: JCore can now evaluate the source root and so 
it is not needed anymore to specify the source attachment. We plan the input 
field in the UI.
I wanted to say:
We plan to remove the root input field from the UI.
Martin, is this PR obsolete now ?
fixed in M4
