Build I20021127 (also noticed in I20021119)

I am experiencing a bug that causes severe corruption of the editors.  Once in
the corrupt state, the editor presentation is garbled and not correctly drawn. 
Trying to save or close the editor has no effect (apart from more stack traces).
 A shutdown and restart is required to make the problem go away, and errors
occur on both shutdown and restart.  I will try to come up with a test case.  I
will attach the log file.

Build I20021127 (also noticed in I20021119)

I am experiencing a bug that causes severe corruption of the editors.  Once in
the corrupt state, the editor presentation is garbled and not correctly drawn. 
Trying to save or close the editor has no effect (apart from more stack traces).
 A shutdown and restart is required to make the problem go away, and errors
occur on both shutdown and restart.  I will try to come up with a test case.  I
will attach the log file.
Created attachment 2543
Log file showing stack traces
I can't recreate a simple test case, but I have a reproducible test case in my
workspace.  I have uploaded my workspace to the anonymous ftp server.  Steps:

1) Switch to editor on Workspace.java (already open)
2) Go to method moving(IResource, IResource, int)
3) Add the missing semi-colon on the second line of code
4) Copy the string "project" to the clipboard
5) Now quickly paste over top of the three references to "source" in the body of
the if statement.  Do this by double-clicking on the word "source" to select,
then hit Ctrl+v to paste.

This should easily reproduce the corruption.  I will attach a screenshot.

Created attachment 2544
jpg showing corrupt editor
Just to let you know, this wasn't an isolated incident.  The corruption happens
to me on average twice a day, on various different files.  It can happen in code
partitions as well as javadoc.  It always happens during a paste operation... it
seems to be related to the fact that the control key is being pressed almost
simultaneously with the double click to select the text to paste over.  The word
usually ends up being underlined in blue, which suggests that the
hover-ctrl-click navigation feature is kicking in.

Each time this happens, I lose unsaved changes in the editor and am forced to
terminate the VM process.
Still reproducible in build I20021210, but some of the stack traces are now
different (attaching new log).  Recovery is a little easier now, because
reverting the document seems to recover from the damage.  The other symptoms and
the steps to reproduce are the same.
Created attachment 2757
New log file with different stack traces
Build 20021213.
