Since local variables are a part of Java Language, Java search should work for 
them.

A short cut should also be provided, so that when one highlights a local and 
presses ctl-l all local references should be searched by Java Search ( only in 
current file :-)

I think this is a basic facility.

Vinay

Since local variables are a part of Java Language, Java search should work for 
them.

A short cut should also be provided, so that when one highlights a local and 
presses ctl-l all local references should be searched by Java Search ( only in 
current file :-)

I think this is a basic facility.

Vinay
Moving to UI as this has to be covered by Java search.
Daniel is the search guy.
any comment from your side?
local vars are currently not supported by J Core Search moving to J Core.

Adding a hack into Java Search UI which does text search is not the right way.
There's also code resolve involved which returns the type instead of the
information that it is a local variable.

Searching for local variables is doable. It can be done by traversing the AST 
(refactoring is already doing this). I agree with Dani that it would be nice to 
abstract this in the search engine.

The other problem is that we use code resolve/select to find the underlying 
JavaElement. For local variables JDT core returns the corresponding type (since 
there is no represention for locals in the JavaModel. Returning the 
corresponding type works fine for hovering but it means that the JavaCore does 
a UI decision. For local variables the source range corresponding to the 
declaration (or initialization e.g. assignment) could be returned as an 
alternative to a JavaElement.

Regarding importance: 
- doing a search for the references to a type when a local is selected is 
confusing and not correct (we got other reports about this). This needs to be 
fixed.
- the current code resolve behaviour is also questionable and it blocks us from 
implementing some useful reference searches (e.g. find and highlight all the 
references to a local).
There isn't any Java element for a local variable. We cannot change this for 
2.1.
Will reconsider post 2.1
not so fast. JDT UI now supports an action Occurrences in file. This action 
searches for references to local variables using the AST and it works fine.
The action is in the integration build of Jan 7th.

The original request:
"A short cut should also be provided, so that when one highlights a local and 
presses ctl-l all local references should be searched by Java Search ( only in 
current file :-)"

is covered by this new editor action (Search>Occurrences in File) - closing.

for 2.1 we should revisit the JavaModel and make it closer to the AST.

