Subject: Feature Request: Import/Export on Context Menu
From: dewsteve@us.ibm.com (Steve Dews)
Newsgroups: eclipse.tools
Organization: http://www.eclipse.org
Date: Sep 04 2001 21:00:07

I'd love to be able to right-click a project and import from the drop-down
menu rather than go up to the File menu.

NOTES:

TC (9/5/2001 11:21:17 AM) - this would be useful for all resources.

Subject: Feature Request: Import/Export on Context Menu
From: dewsteve@us.ibm.com (Steve Dews)
Newsgroups: eclipse.tools
Organization: http://www.eclipse.org
Date: Sep 04 2001 21:00:07

I'd love to be able to right-click a project and import from the drop-down
menu rather than go up to the File menu.

NOTES:

TC (9/5/2001 11:21:17 AM) - this would be useful for all resources.
PRODUCT VERSION: 134



I filed a similar feature request at the very beginning of Eclipse and it has 
been doomed.

An acceptable reason against such a feature is: long context menus. I guess 
configurable context menus would solve the problem.

*** Bug 6882 has been marked as a duplicate of this bug. ***
Adding myself as a cc per newsgroup posting "Re: Export to.../Export to JAR" by 
Adam Kiezun, hoping that this bug is also about: 

Allow exporting to jar from the Project's context-menu.


Not implemented as of 20020115. 
Randy,

  Pls investigate. If we decide to go ahead with this remember that the Java 
packages view will want to reuse the action. Also need to be careful about 
adding popup menu items to the Navigator, it is already long. 
"Import" only makes sense on a selected project, package or folder.

"Export" makes sense on all resources.

"Export" is used quite useful for:

- when you don't have access to a VCM
- if you want to make a local backup without using external tools
- if you want to email some sources to someone else
- for deployment
...

All those customers (read students, hobby programmers etc.) who don't have the 
resources and or knowledge to install a VCM to use Eclipse effectively with 
another programmer would greatly profit from it -- better, would profit from 
easily accessing this feature.

This feature would be the opposite to the "Refresh from local" action, thus it 
could be named "Export to local..."

@@ Need more room? @@

I think that the "Build Project" and "Rebuild Project" actions don't belong on 
the popups for "types & packages" -- their names even imply that they belong 
to "projects" and not types.

Why would one select a type and then use the "Build project" action?

Intuitively, one would select a project and look for "Build project"/"Rebuild 
Project".
Added myself to CC list, as I also want the 'Export' option on the drop down 
menu.
Added import/export to navigator context menu.
Moved ImportResourcesAction, ExportResourcesAction to api package 
org.eclipse.ui.actions
Moving PR to JDT for consideration of adding these actions to the packages 
view context menu
pls add support for import/export in the JDT action groups.
I notice that Import/Export on the pop-up menu is partially implemented in the 
Packages view in the May 2 drop (build ******).

I just want to make sure you realize that we need it to work when a resource is 
selected, not just a resource container. i.e. I see that the context menu 
contains Import... and Export... for projects, packages, and folders.
But we need it to work on a DLL file. Other people will want it to work on 
a .java file.
Julian aksed us to shorten the context menu to 15 entries (max. 20 when 
absolutely necessary). The current context menu already contains 17 entries for 
compilation units so we deceided to remove those we thought aren't so important 
for CUs. One we deceided not to add was Export because we think it is a rare 
operation on CUs (import isn't a valid operation on files anyway). The entry is 
still in the File menu and you can use DnD to export an file.
Marking PR as fixed. If you want to see the Export on Files/CUs please open a 
separate PR so that the UI team can deceide on this.

Fixed in build I20020502
