[M4 - haven't seen this problem previously]

[Note that this could well be a platform editor problem - I don't often edit
non-Java files, so it's hard to say]

When editing a Java file, fairly frequently the I-beam turns into a normal
pointer cursor, and stays that way for that file. Other files are okay, but
switching between files, the "broken" file stays broken until it is closed and
reopened.

[M4 - haven't seen this problem previously]

[Note that this could well be a platform editor problem - I don't often edit
non-Java files, so it's hard to say]

When editing a Java file, fairly frequently the I-beam turns into a normal
pointer cursor, and stays that way for that file. Other files are okay, but
switching between files, the "broken" file stays broken until it is closed and
reopened.
I've just had it when selecting an area of code - but it doesn't *always* happen
then. I'll try to keep track of when it happens in this bug, as I can see it
could be *very* hard to track down otherwise.
I have found at least one way to lose the I-beam.  If you hold down Ctrl with
the pointer over something that you can "open declaration" on, the pointer will
turn into a hyperlink hand (and whatever the pointer is over will be turned blue
and underlined).  When you release Ctrl, the pointer turns into the arrow
instead of returning to the I-beam.

Same for me on WinXP with M4. Close and reopen of the editor get the old caret 
back.
On my fresh install of M4 (Linux-GTK), this is a problem 100% of the time for
Java Editors.  The caret is just NEVER there. (Note, I'm talking about the
flashing vertical bar that indicates where the next character will be inserted.
 The I-Beam is a particular mouse pointer that indicates you've about to place
the caret with a click).
Please ignore my comments above.  It appear to be a different bug from this one.
 I have submitted it as #30377.
I've finally got a reproducible test case. I don't know whether or not it's the
*only* way that it happens, but it might give a hint. This would be a *really*
nice bug to fix - it's been irritating me quite a bit in M4.

Have a minimal class, e.g.:

public class Test
{
}

Now, with the cursor in white space, hold down ctrl, and then move the I-beam
pointer over "Test" - the pointer will, correctly, change to a hand. Then move
the pointer *away* from Test again, and the pointer changes to an arrow, and
stays as an arrow until the file is closed and reopened.

Hope this helps.

Method for reproducing this no longer works with M5... was anything done that
you (i.e. developers) know of that might have fixed this? I'll update this bug
if I run into it again now I'm using M5...
*** Bug 30052 has been marked as a duplicate of this bug. ***
Marking as fixed as no longer reproducible. I remember that there was a 
related SWT problem which has been fixed recently but don't remember the bug #.
start verifying
Verified as far as "I haven't seen this with M5 or RC1, when I used to see it
fairly often" and the only way I have of reproducing it in M4 has gone away...
