20030122

To use the 'extract local' refactoring, you have to first select the full 
expression, which takes as much time than doing a cut. It also shows a dialog 
for the name.

Better would be if is can be used on a 0-length cursor (e.g. at the beginning 
of an expression), and if the name would be guessed (and maybe the linked 
rename mode is enabled)

20030122

To use the 'extract local' refactoring, you have to first select the full 
expression, which takes as much time than doing a cut. It also shows a dialog 
for the name.

Better would be if is can be used on a 0-length cursor (e.g. at the beginning 
of an expression), and if the name would be guessed (and maybe the linked 
rename mode is enabled)
the name is guessed if the expression ends in a call to a getter 

field.foo().bar().getFred() -> guessed name is fred

0-length is problematic: which expression do i take?
i agree though that less ui would be better here (in-place)
question is what to do with the 'replace all?' question that appears in the 
dialog? sometimes that's what you want, sometimes not
I think we should try to support 0-length when it is clear which expression to 
take. I was tricked by this as well. Can't we come up with something here ?
usually you would position the cursor at the beginning of the expression you 
want to extract.

Name guessing is usually done with the type to which the expression resolves.

If you detect more places of the same expression ('replace all') you could 
bring an extra dialog.
Maybe its the best to make a quick assist for this, so you would see the the 
preview
But for 2.1 we will not convert it into a quick assist. Sine we don't have a 
satisfying stroy for refactorings and quick assist we shouldn't start 
converting singel refactorings. Additionally with the new short cuts it's 
faster to open the refactoring directly than using quick assist.
extract method fails too
and extract constant

so, how 'bout we postpone it now and fix then for all 3?
defer
to be investigated
We should at least solve the 0-length case for extract local and constant for 
M3. I will take care about extract method.
0-length selection is now handled as if the covering node were selected
