Created attachment 161539
Screenshot showing the problem

In p2 we are currently targeting jsr14, that is, using Java 5 syntax but building down to Java 1.4 bytecode.  The target was set manually in the jdt preferences, but if you open the project properties, you get some strange errors (see attached screenshot).

Can jsr14 be added as a option for generated .class compatibility?

Created attachment 161539
Screenshot showing the problem

In p2 we are currently targeting jsr14, that is, using Java 5 syntax but building down to Java 1.4 bytecode.  The target was set manually in the jdt preferences, but if you open the project properties, you get some strange errors (see attached screenshot).

Can jsr14 be added as a option for generated .class compatibility?
jsr14 is not an officially supported target version.
(In reply to comment #1)
> jsr14 is not an officially supported target version.

Thanks Markus. I hadn't realized this until Olivier mentioned it on Bug 305259.  Since part of the SDK (p2) is now making use of this target, can we work towards making it a supported target (for Eclipse 3.7)? Or is it more complicated than this?
Ian, when we started using this feature in p2, there was a tacit agreement between Olivier and I (and even discussed during the eclipse team meeting) that we would not ask to make that support full fledged because this could require a lot of work and would not be useful to a majority of ppl (like support for Java 7 would).
(In reply to comment #3)
> Ian, when we started using this feature in p2, there was a tacit agreement
> between Olivier and I (and even discussed during the eclipse team meeting) that
> we would not ask to make that support full fledged because this could require a
> lot of work and would not be useful to a majority of ppl (like support for Java
> 7 would).

+1, thanks for the clarification, I hadn't realized this.  I'm actually very impressed with how well the down compiling works (other than a few minor annoyances).  I agree that we should not spend time on this (especially if its a lot of work, and it only benefits a few).  If others in the platform start to make use of this, then maybe these requests can be reconsidered.  

I would be happy to close these bugs as WONTFIX, or even Invalid (since I didn't realize that we had this agreement in place).  Sorry for causing any confusion, and thanks for the quick responses.
It's ok Ian, I think it's useful to have the problems documented in case we consider it something worth supporting in a future release.
We can keep the bug open but currently there are no plans to invest into jsr14 target.
I've "fixed" comment 0 in the UI (in ComplianceConfigurationBlock.java).

Iff the target is already jsr14, then we also show this in the UI and don't show bad error messages. Otherwise, you still don't see jsr14 (so this target is only passively supported after it has been set manually in the .prefs file).
If jsr14 is used inside the preference file, then it is shown in the UI.
No further change plan at the core level.

Moving to JDT/UI to be closed as FIXED (comment 7).
(In reply to comment #8)
> If jsr14 is used inside the preference file, then it is shown in the UI.
> No further change plan at the core level.
> 
> Moving to JDT/UI to be closed as FIXED (comment 7).

OK, changed the summary from "Support jsr14..." to "Accept jsr14...".
