Build 20030129

I'm trying to move a source folder from the org.eclipse.ui.externaltools
plug-in to the newly created org.eclipse.ant.tests.ui plugin.

I right click on the source folder ("Ant Editor Tests") and choose
Refactor->Move which presents me with a dialog. When I click on the
org.eclipse.ant.tests plug-in in this dialog, the OK button disables but there
is no message displayed to give me a clue as to why I can't move the folder
there. The OK button enables for every other plug-in except the one I want to
use.

Build 20030129

I'm trying to move a source folder from the org.eclipse.ui.externaltools
plug-in to the newly created org.eclipse.ant.tests.ui plugin.

I right click on the source folder ("Ant Editor Tests") and choose
Refactor->Move which presents me with a dialog. When I click on the
org.eclipse.ant.tests plug-in in this dialog, the OK button disables but there
is no message displayed to give me a clue as to why I can't move the folder
there. The OK button enables for every other plug-in except the one I want to
use.
Adam, any comment ? 
 
Jared, one reason might be that the selection contains an element from 
org.eclipse.ant.tests.ui.  
Oops. I forgot to update this report with my discovery. I was finally able to
get the refactoring to allow me to move the source folder into the plug-in by
first creating an empty source folder in the target plug-in (which I later 
deleted).
it's because the newly created project is itself a package fragment root.
after you create another source folder in a project, then the project is no 
longer a package fragment root and moving is fine.

it's been like that forever
the move dialog does not display reasons for why the selection make OK disabled
i'd defer unless you feel strongly
1. I don't understand how technically difficult it is to fix the problem (that
is, to enable the move).
2. I don't know how often people try to move existing source folders into new
plug-ins.

if (1.equals("easy") || 2.equals("often")) then I'd say don't defer.
else there's a workaround, so I guess it's no big deal.
enabling it would not be easy, i think
so the only thing i can picture here is a message in the dialog 
(you'd still get nothing when dnd, though)

*** Bug 31227 has been marked as a duplicate of this bug. ***
the problem is not the label but rather that it would have to explain, for each 
possible combination of selected elements and target, what causes it to be not 
possible to move to to that destination

i think there's no code there now that does that (i.e. boolean flags are passed 
around, not error messages)

opt to defer
reopen if you feel strongly
I would do the following:

Allow move in the case where project == package fragment root && 
project.numberOfPackages == 0; if this is not too complicated.

Anyway, we should improve the documentation describing cases where move is not 
possible.
post 2.1
reop - part of reog work
fixed
