Build 20030206

1. Help / About Eclipse Platform
2. Press Feature Details

Feature name: "Eclipse Platform Plug-in Developer Resources"
Blurb shows: "Eclipse Platform SDK"

Feature name: "Eclipse Platform Plug-in Developer Resources (Windows)"
Blurb shows: "Eclipse Platform SDK (Windows)"

These should be made consistent. The blurb should say 
"...Plug-in Developer Resources...".

Build 20030206

1. Help / About Eclipse Platform
2. Press Feature Details

Feature name: "Eclipse Platform Plug-in Developer Resources"
Blurb shows: "Eclipse Platform SDK"

Feature name: "Eclipse Platform Plug-in Developer Resources (Windows)"
Blurb shows: "Eclipse Platform SDK (Windows)"

These should be made consistent. The blurb should say 
"...Plug-in Developer Resources...".
It's important that these all be consistent in the release.

Additionally, the names of the features (in the feature.properties) also need 
to be made consistent. Changing a feature name requires changing 3 places:
1) the "featureName" property in feature.properties for the feature
2) the "pluginName" property in plugin.properties for the feature's plug-in
3) the "blurb" property in about.properties for the feature's plug-in

To verify that the names are correct, (1) open the update manager and fully 
expand the current configuration to see the feature names, and (2) open the 
about dialog and go to the feature page (selecting a feature show its name and 
blurb below).




Fixed for builds > 200302191630.
I think the following change needs to happen in the JDT source feature and 
plugin to follow the convention used in the Platform source.

"Eclipse Java Development Tools SDK" should be replaced with "Eclipse Java 
Development Tools Plug-in Developer Resources"


Concur. I suggest the name be changed from "Eclipse Java Development Tools 
SDK" to the somewhat shorter "Eclipse JDT Plug-in Developer Resources". (Note 
that we already use "JDT" in "Eclipse JDT Plug-in Developer Guide".)
This will lead to an inconsistency with the Java plugin itself. This is 
named "Eclipse Java Development Tools". Are you suggesting to rename this 
to "Eclipse JDT" as well ?

Removing RC1 milestone.
I wasn't suggesting renaming "Eclipse Java Development Tools". Just the "SDK" 
one.

I don't think the apparent inconsistency will bother anyone (except perhaps 
us :-). For example, the two JDT help books are called "Java Development User 
Guide" and "JDT Plug-in Developer Guide" without causing confusion. The 
rationale is that users that develop Eclipse plug-ins know more jargon and 
will be familiar with "JDT" as the name of the chunck of Eclipse that normal 
users know only as "the Java IDE".

Fix available in builds > I20030220_0800
