I am using 2.1 M5. In earlier versions (can't remember which) it was possible 
to attach source archives to jar files in which the source was not located in 
the root of the source archive. The help file still mentions that you have to 
set the "Root Path" field. But this is nowhere to be found anymore.

Is this a bug in the help file or what? Is there another way to specify the 
root patch inside the source archive?

I am using 2.1 M5. In earlier versions (can't remember which) it was possible 
to attach source archives to jar files in which the source was not located in 
the root of the source archive. The help file still mentions that you have to 
set the "Root Path" field. But this is nowhere to be found anymore.

Is this a bug in the help file or what? Is there another way to specify the 
root patch inside the source archive?
We now infer the source root path, thus the field is gone.
Moving to JDT/UI for revising the help/doc.
Martin, we should consider this when writing the doc. 
Here's my scenario:
1 common src package that contains source for multiple jars
Each package is differentiated by a separate directory (i.e., common, server, 
ui)

The source root path "inferrer" doesn't work with this.  Being able to select 
the root path does work.

Obviously we could fix this by separating the src package into one for each 
module but sometimes you're not going to have that influence.  Selecting the 
root path is much easier than having to generate your own version of a source 
package each time a new version is released.

Alternatively, if this can just be fixed in the inferrer easily then that may 
be the better approach.
JCore is now autodetecting the root path. I don;t know the internals, but it 
should be able to detect the case you're describing. Moving to JCore
I will investigate it.
A workaround for now is to edit the .classpath file of your project and add the
rootpath manually.
You should have an entry like:
    <classpathentry kind="lib" path="D:/test.jar" sourcepath="D:/src.zip"/>

Simply change it to:
    <classpathentry kind="lib" path="D:/test.jar" sourcepath="D:/src.zip"
rootpath="test"/>

where test is the expected root path.

We will try to change the auto detection to handle the case described by Jason. 
We now support the Jason's settings.
Fixed and released in 2.1 stream.
Regression tests added in AttachSourceTests.
Please fix the doc. I fixed the implementation to support the Jason's settings. 
We still need to fix the doc.
should be addressed during the doc pass.

This affects both the ISV and user doc.


doc fixed
