Eclipse 2.1 RC1

Apologies if I'm missing something, but since moving from M3 to RC1, the options 
under Prefs->Java->CodeGeneration no longer include a way of stopping Eclipse from 
adding javadoc comments on creation of new types.  The help system still reflects 
the M3-style help dialogs which _did_ have these options.

I could just edit the javadoc templates, but I'd rather not.  I want to just turn 
them off altogether.

Have these options been removed, or have they just been moved to a different 
location?

Eclipse 2.1 RC1

Apologies if I'm missing something, but since moving from M3 to RC1, the options 
under Prefs->Java->CodeGeneration no longer include a way of stopping Eclipse from 
adding javadoc comments on creation of new types.  The help system still reflects 
the M3-style help dialogs which _did_ have these options.

I could just edit the javadoc templates, but I'd rather not.  I want to just turn 
them off altogether.

Have these options been removed, or have they just been moved to a different 
location?
Martin, even if I uncheck the check box "Automatically add comments..." I get a 
Javadoc comment when creating a new cu. 
The checkbox refers only to the comment templates. The new file template is
always used. If you have a comment in there (or reference $typecomment in
there), it will be generated.

Can we improve the wording? Or should we add another check box enable/disabling
the new file template? Dirk, your opinion?
*** Bug 33383 has been marked as a duplicate of this bug. ***
Why do we need the check box at all ? Users can now customize every single 
template. But removing it might "break" existing workspace. So I would improve 
the wording and make clear that this option is somehow deprecated and only 
applies to the Comment templates and not to the code templates. 
I would argue that editing the "new type" template to be blank is not the most
user-friendly way to go about it.  If the user wants no javadoc on a new type,
it should be a simple yes/no option. 

But I'm happy to use that workaround, so no worries.
the check box is needed: 'Add javadoc' and the code assist after '/**' still use
the comment templates, even when you turn the 'Automatically create comments' off.


Talked with Erich, we should move the check box to the buttom, we can improve
the label.
My favourite solution would be to have a second check box. "Use 'New file
template' for newly created types". Of course this is a bit of an overkill, but
it gives the user also the posibility to keep a new file template still stored,
but for example temporarly not use it.
moved the check boc to the bottom, added a second line describing that this
check box does not apply to comments contained in the 'code' templates

> 20030228

Dirk, please reopen if you or Erich do not like this solution
