Versions: 2.1 M5 and RC1

The code assist popup will be visible (after typing a period after a class) for 
about one second after which it is closed and the Eclipse Platform (the whole 
IDE) loses focus.  This bug was NOT present in version 2.1 M4.

Versions: 2.1 M5 and RC1

The code assist popup will be visible (after typing a period after a class) for 
about one second after which it is closed and the Eclipse Platform (the whole 
IDE) loses focus.  This bug was NOT present in version 2.1 M4.
I was having this problem
until I turned off auto activation, applied, and tried it a few times with
ctrl-space and it didn't dissappear
then i turned auto activation back on, then it would stay open when i hit "." or "("

I've even quit eclipse and started it again, and everything seems fine
oops
ignore that. it stopped working again (even when i turn off auto activation and
use ctrl-space)

but it was working for a little while ...
Last one, i swear

I found what i was doing ... I was using an Boolean object. Static objects
(using ".") stay open, but non-static objects do not.

even more, the last item in the drop down for Boolean is an item of the instance
of the current class (non-static? i've noticed you can do this) ... and leaving
the focus on this last item for a few seconds will cause the popup to disappear

i'm also using the new release 2.1.
This bug still shows up in the production release of 2.1.  I have noticed that 
the IDE does not lose focus to another application running in the OS but I can 
see a hover window for a split second as the code assist window closes.  I have 
tried disabling all hovers in the Java preferences without a change in 
behavior.  I have also noticed that if you type two consecutive periods the 
code assist window will stay open but as soon as you press a key it closes 
again.

Example:

public class Test
{
  Map mp = new HashMap();

  public Object getTest()
  {
    return mp.;  
//typeing the period pops up the code assist then closes automatically
  }
}
Ok I think I figured it out.  Unfortunately I made all of these changes at once 
so I can't tell you exactly which one causes the problem.  

I had 3 versions of the JDK installed for some testing I was doing 1.3.1_06, 
1.4.1_01, and 1.4.1_02 and my JAVA_HOME was set to 1.4.1_01.  I uninstalled 
1.3.1_06 and 1.4.1_01 and changed my JAVA_HOME to the 1.4.1_02 and now I don't 
see the bug.  The strange thing is that Eclipse was showing that I was using 
1.4.1_02's JRE for my workspace projects but I think the IDE was actually using 
1.4.1_01 for its own runtime.  

I hope this resolves your issue too Eric.

Best Regards,
-Clayton
