Seems like i have found the following bug (hope it's not a feature *smiles*) in


actual RC2 of Eclipse 2.1.




If you're in the Navigator View and select the option to "Show Source of 
Selected Element Only" nothing (usefull) happens. It displays the whole file and 
doesn't move to the start point of the select outline member.




In the Package Explorer View everything works great and so far i know i haven't 
run into this problem before RC2 but i'm not 100% sure maybe i just never select 
an outline point in the navigator view before (or register that it doesn't 
works).

Seems like i have found the following bug (hope it's not a feature *smiles*) in


actual RC2 of Eclipse 2.1.




If you're in the Navigator View and select the option to "Show Source of 
Selected Element Only" nothing (usefull) happens. It displays the whole file and 
doesn't move to the start point of the select outline member.




In the Package Explorer View everything works great and so far i know i haven't 
run into this problem before RC2 but i'm not 100% sure maybe i just never select 
an outline point in the navigator view before (or register that it doesn't 
works).
I cannot reproduce the behaviour.
When the navigator view is active then the Show Source of Selecte element is 
disabled (as it should be).
Have check it aggain ... 




I can reproduce it ... but you're right if i only select the navigation view 


the button is disabled but if i then select anything in the outline it gets


active and you can select it. It just confusing because it seems like it's 
active (and you can change) but nothing (selection change) happens.



Still not clear what the problem is you are referring to.
Is the problem that the button is disabled while the navigator is active?

here are the steps I tried to reproduce the problem:
(initial state: Show ... toolbar button is not pressed)
1) navigator is active:Show ... toolbar button is disabled
2) activate the outline -> Show ... toolbar button is enabled
3) press Show ... toolbar button
->the editor reflects the change.

Can you please provide step by step instructions (as above) and explain where 
the behaviour differs from your expected behaviour.


I can't understand it really but now when i try to provide you the step by step 
guide to reproduce the problem i can't reproduce it ... now the Element 
reduction and positioning works great. Before this time i could reproduce it 
everytime (have checked it more than twice before i opened the bugreport) also 
after closing eclipse and rebooting my machine. But now like said above 
everything works fine.




If i can reproduce it again permanently (directly with step by step procedure) 
i'll just open a new report ;-)




Sorry for the inconvenience i've made and thanks for your quick help and great 
Eclipse work!





