a method with the signature "assert(...)" is treated as syntax error when trying
to launch the refactoring "rename method" even if i'm in jdk1.3 compliance mode!

the mentioned methods are also colored as keyword - but assert is no keyword for
jdk1.3 compliant files!

(i'm using a jdk1.4 compiler for performance reasons)

a method with the signature "assert(...)" is treated as syntax error when trying
to launch the refactoring "rename method" even if i'm in jdk1.3 compliance mode!

the mentioned methods are also colored as keyword - but assert is no keyword for
jdk1.3 compliant files!

(i'm using a jdk1.4 compiler for performance reasons)
what's also wrong is, in the outline view the methods are not displayed as
methods. they are rendered as private static code block.

this does not happen, if i use a 1.3 jre.
I checked that in 1.3 compliant mode, assert wasn't treated any special.
So it must only be a refactoring issue or a configuration issue. Did you set 
the compliance level to 1.3 ?

Moving to JDT/UI for further commenting.
Using the following example when using 1.3 compliance mode works well

public class A {
	public void assert(boolean exp, String message) {
	}
}

So I assume you are still using 1.4 compliance mode for the project. Try this 
shows the described behavior.

Stefan, please be aware that compiler setting can be adjusted on a workspace 
and project level.

Please reopen and provide a test case if you still see the problem
if i switch from jdk1.3 to jdk1.4 compilance level to jdk1.3 compliance level (i
get over 800 compile errors when in 1.4 mode) the refactoring tells me "... due
to syntax errors ... can not be performed".
this happens only within the context of greater workspaces (i have 1929 java
source files within the project) - and this is reproducable for me!

the example from dirk works for me too, at least within a fresh workspace.
it seems to be a "fresh" problem of some kind! 
when switching compliance levels i have the file with the assert methods open
all the time! 
when, after switching, i close and reopen the file it works.
The problem is not releated to refactoring since the file for some reason has 
indeed errors.

Stefan, can you please clarify the difference between comment #4 and #5. I 
doubt that you see 800 compile errors in one open file ?
i see over 800 errors within the project. when finally switching to the jdk1.3
level it all errors are gone again, but assert is still treated as keyword. when
closing and reopening the file it works again.
it seems to be a problem with refreshing the editor/outline views and not with
refactoring.
Created attachment 4321
patch
Patch has been attached to the wrong Pr.
The editor dynamically adapts to the change of the compliance settings but 
does not refresh accordingly. Adapting severity as this is not a blocker.
Stefan, do you still see this problem in 3.0 M2?
fixed in 3.0.0 I20030910
