When I cut some piece of code from one place and paste it elsewhere,
it is often the case that many required import statements are missing
in the pasted class.

So I basically have to go through the pasted code and type Ctrl+Space
to let Eclipse enter import statements.

I thought this could be something Eclipse can do for me.

When I cut some piece of code from one place and paste it elsewhere,
it is often the case that many required import statements are missing
in the pasted class.

So I basically have to go through the pasted code and type Ctrl+Space
to let Eclipse enter import statements.

I thought this could be something Eclipse can do for me.
Have you tried to use Ctrl+O. This will add imports at once.

Moving to text to consider trigger organize imports on paste.
I found that Ctrl+Shift+O adds all the necessary import statements.
How smart!

But I still think automatically adding import statements might be
more user friendly. I'm fine if that happens only when I copy/cut
code from Eclipse and paste it elsewhere. In that way, I suppose you could
carry around AST behind the code and figure out the necessary import
statements without analyzing the whole source code.

Thank you for the tip. I'm lowering the priority since pressing Ctrl+Shift+O
is very simple once you know the right short-cut.
Ctrl-Shift-O is not good enough. The intelligent auto import on copy and paste
is something I _really_ miss from IntelliJ idea.

The problem with Ctrl-Shift-O is that it is not aware of the imports in the
original file, so forces you to pick types if there is any ambiguity (multiple
classes with the same name are known to Eclipse). So in IDEA, I would do a copy,
then a paste, and the paste operation had enough metadata  available about types
(kept with the code on the clipboard presumably) that it could _always_ add the
proper imports automatically. In Eclipse, if my copied code has types that are
ambiguous, I have to select the appropriate one. So not only do I have to do an
extra keypress, Ctrl-Shift-O, I then have to go through 0 to n 'pick the right
type' operations for each type that is ambiguous.




I think Ctrl-Shift-O doesn't 
What else would be nice would be to go above Intelli-J on this and provide a 
dialog that allows the user to select which classes to import, and have 
checkboxes for each class. All the checkboxes would default to true. 

Something else that should be added is a configuration option in the JDT to 
allow developers to toggle this behavior. Something like "Prompt for imports 
on paste".

I would actually argue that the import behavior on paste should be the default 
for the JDT because many developers who are using other products have come to 
rely on this functionality.

Also, I would say that most developers, including myself, who are forced to 
switch between IDEs at work and home, find it difficult to switch back and 
forth when new keystrokes are used or automatic behavior (such as auto 
organize on paste) are used. If I am forced to either turn on or off 
(wholesale) import on paste, it has now lost the niceness of applications such 
as Intelli-J who give an option during the paste. Taking it the extra step to 
provide a list of the imports would really make this feature a step ahead of 
the other guys.
Collin, you should vote on this bug if it is something you really want (as I 
do). Might help get it on the radar.
Has been added in R3.0 (Window > Preferences > Java > Editor > Typing
[x] Update imports on paste
