Eclipse had been running fine. Tested a simple Calculator app (3 classes) and 
installed a few plugins (Tomcat/Solex etc). Yesterday was running fine and left 
Eclipse in the Solex view.

However, today on start-up it displayed "Problem occured while building 
workspace" errors. I changed to "Resources" view and get "Problems Opening 
Editor".

Eclipse had been running fine. Tested a simple Calculator app (3 classes) and 
installed a few plugins (Tomcat/Solex etc). Yesterday was running fine and left 
Eclipse in the Solex view.

However, today on start-up it displayed "Problem occured while building 
workspace" errors. I changed to "Resources" view and get "Problems Opening 
Editor".
Created attachment 4595
the log file
I've attached the log file. Please let me know anything else that's required.

Is there a quick-fix to be able to edit my existing files?
There are several issues here:

- from the log it seems that the workspace is out of sync with the underlying
  file system. Darren, can you please do a Refresh so that the workspace gets
  synchnronized again.

- the JDT/UI plugin gets disabled due to an exception thrown during 
  initialization. Open separate bug 36554 to track this issue. This
  happens since ajdt plug-in defines a builder and has a dependency on
  JDT/UI plug-in.

- the failed plug-in activation causes ripple effects like "Unable to open 
  view, editor).

- the are several other exceptions in the log cause by non Eclipse plug-ins.
  (tomcat, ...). There is nothing I can say about those exceptions.

Work arounds for the failed plug-in activation:

- open the Java prespective before building the first time
- uninstall the ajdt plug-in (Aspect J). It defines an own builder and has a 
  references to JDT/UI, which causes the UI to be loaded when a build 
  happens.
tried refreshing but this didn't correct the problem.

However, I removed the following AspectJ plugins from the plugins directory:

org.aspectj.ajde_1.1.1
org.eclipse.ajdt.ui_0.6.1
org.eclipse.aspectj_1.1.1

and it fixed the problem which means I can now edit/build run the files again.

So, does this mean the bug lies in AspectJ? Also, if the Tomcat plugin is 
causing errors in the logfile, should this be removed too?


We are investigating into bug 36554. Fixing this allows you to add the ajdt 
plug-ins again (The Aspact J plug-in adds a builder from a UI plug-in, which 
isn't forbidden, but isn't standard; builders are expected to be UI-less).

Regarding the tomcat exceptions: the don't cause harm to the workbench of 
JDT/UI. The exceptions that produce seem to be local to the plug-in itself.
No further action needed. bug 36554 got fixed for HEAD and 2.1.1 stream.
