[Non critical request for enhancement]

Emacs has a feature that instantly indents your text to the right location when 
you hit 'tab' (or whatever key you bind it to).  Something like that would be a 
terrific addition to the eclipse IDE overall.

[Non critical request for enhancement]

Emacs has a feature that instantly indents your text to the right location when 
you hit 'tab' (or whatever key you bind it to).  Something like that would be a 
terrific addition to the eclipse IDE overall.
fixed > 20030912

When pressing TAB in the white space at the beginning of a line, this line gets
automatically indented to the right position. Note that when there is a
multiline selection, the Shift Right / Left behavious is still the same (you can
select "Correct Indentation" from the source menu to get the correct indentation
then).
Does this work on GTK+ as well?  Bug 33495 says Eclipse don't get at the TAB key
events.

Seems to work on our Linux/GTK machine.

Tab only does the job if you are before the correct positions. If the caret is a
the correct tab position or after it then a Tab is inserted.

If it does not work: format the line or a block of code use Indent Line
(default: Ctrl+I).
So why not have tab behave just like ctrl-I.

I know you can make this mapping.. but then it confilcs with code assist.

e.g.   you can not tab between entry points.


*** Bug 4135 has been marked as a duplicate of this bug. ***
Bug#: 4135  Is asking for more then bug# 37472.  Its asking for a TAB key stroke that will indent the entire line as long as the curser is on that line. 

As I mentioned in my entry comment for 4135,  you can map the TAB key to the same command as ctr-i.  however you lose the ability to use Code Assist.

The fix here does not address that issue from my testing with versions 3.0.x-3.3.x.

Also, pressing tab multiple times inserts tabs, which is almost never desired, and  would not be necessary if tab just formated instead.  Inserting a TAB should be configurable as the special case, alt-TAB or ctr-TAB, and line format the default (just TAB) imho. 

 This configuration should be easy for a user to make, without loosing functionality of Code Assist.  I realize in other context TAB may be desired, and emacs handles this very well, by allowing you to change the context of any edit.


