I apologise if I am a doofus, but I switched to a Stack vertically layout for 
the Java Browsing perspective, and want to switch back.  Every time I untick 
the  "stack vertically" in the Preferences->Java->Appearance, and close all 
perspectives, OR EVEN  RESTART Eclipse, it constantly comes up in the 
vertically stacked layout (the tick is off, though, in the preferences).

Tried searching in all the xml and txt files within the work space, but 
couldn't really see anything striking as to why this is happening.

I apologise if I am a doofus, but I switched to a Stack vertically layout for 
the Java Browsing perspective, and want to switch back.  Every time I untick 
the  "stack vertically" in the Preferences->Java->Appearance, and close all 
perspectives, OR EVEN  RESTART Eclipse, it constantly comes up in the 
vertically stacked layout (the tick is off, though, in the preferences).

Tried searching in all the xml and txt files within the work space, but 
couldn't really see anything striking as to why this is happening.
More info on this 'bug'.  I originally had the Java Browsing perspective as my 
default perspective.  I tried changing the default back to the standard Java 
perspective as default, and restarted Eclipse, opened a new Java Browsing 
perspective, but it's still stacked vertically, even though the Tick is off in 
the preferences.

:(
Murphy's Law a bit here :: Finally clicked the "Reset" button in the 
Preferences->Workbench->Perspective for the Java Browsing Perspective, closed 
all perspectives and opened a new Java Browsing Perspective, and it's now 
honouring the horizontal.

I had already tried the Window menu->Reset Perspective option previously, but 
that did not have the desired affect.

Happy to close this if this is 'desired' behaviour, but I must admit it's not 
as intuitive for me to have to do this as I would prefer.. 

Thanks for a great product though.

Paul Smith
The preference clearly states that it only takes effect for Java Browsing
perspectives that are newly opened.

We give the user the right to overwrite the existing perspectives with his own
layout (that's what you probably have done). From then on the corresponding
perspective factory will not be consulted and hence the preference has no longer
any effect.

Note that you have been asked to overwrite the existing Java Browsing
perspective layout and you probably said "yes". From then on we can no longer
know what's in that perspective (maybe there are no browsing views at all).

Thanks for your comment Daniel.  I totally agree with you now that I understand 
how it works.  Having said that, I'd recommend no more than perhaps tweaking 
the description message under the Tick box in the Preferences->Java->Appearance:

"Note: This preference will only take effect on new perspectives".  

To me, a user, a "new" perspective is one that I explicitly open, and it was 
unclear why I was getting the behaviour.  Perhaps an additional message "If you 
customize the perspective, this option may not have any effect at all."

Anyway, pretty minor.  

cheers,

Paul Smith
Improving the message is a good idea.
This is fixed.

