build I20030715

- in a self-hosting workspace with all projects showing in package explorer,
- go to create a new Java project
- enter project name
- hit Next
- the package explorer flickers noticeably
- hit Back and Next a few times to see it again

Simply adding a project should not require refreshing the whole view.
Should just use TreeViewer.add (which now does binary search if the viewer has a
sorter).

build I20030715

- in a self-hosting workspace with all projects showing in package explorer,
- go to create a new Java project
- enter project name
- hit Next
- the package explorer flickers noticeably
- hit Back and Next a few times to see it again

Simply adding a project should not require refreshing the whole view.
Should just use TreeViewer.add (which now does binary search if the viewer has a
sorter).
I have all decorators on, which may make the flicker worse.

Erich, can you please comment. Is this a side effect of the fix you did. 
No this isn't a consequence of this fix. Adding a project calls viewer.add(). 

The refresh is required to make the filters (binary projects, shared projects) 
to work. Can we optimize this case so that the refresh is only done when these 
filters are active? Could we add an addtional attribute to a filter that 
states whether it requires a refresh. Dani?
The tree viewer's add methods run the elements through the filters first.
If an element doesn't pass, there is no effect.

I agree with Nick. We have to investigate
- if we really only issue an add
- if some of the filters do more than simply select(...)

>The refresh is required to make the filters (binary projects, shared projects) 
>to work.
I thought we explicitly don't do this. This is why we have bug reports stating
the view is out of sync after adding or removing a project.

Note that there have been recent changes in the implementation of
AbstractTreeViewer add, to use binary search when the viewer has a sorter.
It previously tried to position a new element by searching for it in the revised
list from the content provider.  If it couldn't find it, it would do a refresh
(one level only).  The new code should do less refreshes, not more, and avoids
going to the content provider.

I cannot reproduce the flicker when adding a new project. 
The only flicker I see is that all the icons in the fast view bar (see 40236).

Nick which decorators and filters do you have enabled in your set-up.

Regarding the add change this was the fix the Dirk was refering to and it is 
described in bug 39754.
Nick, can you please comment on #7
This got worse. Besides the flickering you see a dialog telling that the 
operation can't be executed due to a background activity.

Martin, can you please investigate regarding the background activity ? 

Regarding the flashing: it only occurs on next, pressing finish on the first 
page doesn't show the behaviour. Is there anything special when we create the 
temporary project on next.
fixed the backgound conflic (added ISchedulingRule) > 20040218
