In 3.0M2 the JUnit status bar colors have changed from a bright yellow/green to 
a dark green/red (This is hard if you're red/green color blind like I am). The 
difference between a good status and bad status colors is negligible. Please 
change it back to the old (3.0M1 or 2.x) colors.

In 3.0M2 the JUnit status bar colors have changed from a bright yellow/green to 
a dark green/red (This is hard if you're red/green color blind like I am). The 
difference between a good status and bad status colors is negligible. Please 
change it back to the old (3.0M1 or 2.x) colors.
Erich, please comment
The current colors match the existing color scheme better, but I understand 
the problem. I'll ask the visual design people for help.
how'bout adding 2 color-chooser buttons and making it customizable?
i can add that if you need volunteer help.
Let's do this if we cannot find a better solution. To avoid the problem all 
together we could use some dither pattern to distinguish of from failure.
i will adopt the bug then and fix it (time permitting) for 3.0
Jonathan, maybe you could hack on it too and submit a patch? I could guide you 
if needed.
Please don't add color choice buttons for this. I do not want even more options 
which I rarely if ever set. Of course, graphic designers are never color blind -
 sigh. Personally, I liked the traffic light colors used in earlier versions. 
My form of color blindness means that:
1. Green (RGB = 0, 255, 0) looks like yellow on a monitor.
2. Pastel shades of red and green look like pink or grey.
3. I see no difference between red and black text.

Finally, Adam, I'm sure you could fix this bug about 10 times faster than I 
could. And I'm also sure you could fix it faster that you could tell me how to 
fix it!
well, there's no way we can accommodate all users with one color set - and 
returning to the old color scheme is not really an option. most people like the 
current one more.

also, we make all color customizable - why not this one? at some point all 
color settings will be on one preference page and should be easy for you to 
change.

so i see 4 options:
a. we do nothing
b. we implement the 'dither pattern' solution
c. we make the colors customizable
d. we ask graphic designers what to do
Created attachment 5532
patch for the junit project

first proposal of a patch - colors are customizable but are not aplied to
already open JUnit views.
Erich, is that fine?
Created attachment 5534
patch for the junit project

another patch - also updates the view 'live' (no need to re-open)
Erich, please bounce back to me if the patch(es) have bugs
Adam, the no options stuff is really a design philosophy. Let's leave that to 
one side. As a reasonably advanced user, I can accept the one-time hit in 
changing the colors. As to asking the graphic designers, well I'm a primary 
color kind of guy :-)
Thanks for all your work.
*** Bug 49831 has been marked as a duplicate of this bug. ***
Inmates!  You are inmates running the asylum.  A simple fix turns into a complex solution: yet 
another customizable feature.  Amazing :)

The old colors stood out, from eachother and the rest of the UI.  That's a desirable feature.

If you make the colors customizable, please make the default colors the original colors.  The 
default install should consist of usable settings.  I'm partially red/green colorblind as well.  I can 
see traffic signals and the old JUnit colors fine.  The new colors are difficult to differentiate.
Tim,
i mentioned that "returning to the old color scheme is not really an option.
most people like the current one more." (comment 8)
(I'm the inmate that changed the colors)
The last integration build comes with some tweaked and brighter colors (that 
still match the eclipse color palette), but the contrast might still not be 
strong enough. We will continue tweaking and we need your ongoing feedback.
Erich,
The new colors are wonderful. I can see the difference immediately.
Thank you. The new green is actually nicer than the old green (0x00FF00 I think 
it was, which I see as yellow - Is it any wonder, I normally dream in black and 
white:-). 
given the last comment I'm closing this bug
This issue is closed, but it would be greatly appreciated if reopened to make color
 customizable again, in terms of following rationale/background:

Some people (like me) still sometimes mistake red for green with the current color scheme. 
The current scheme may help certain  (probably great) number of people, 
yet some others have different ranges of luminosity responsiveness,
hence the fixed color value doesn't always go well.

A supposable alternative is to provide secondary information other than colors ,
 i.e. e.g. shape or character based indication, but I am afraid that might be less accepted.
