Build: I20030917

I tried to format the file Workspace.java.  The file I tried to comment is
attached, along with a screen capture of what it looked like afterwards.  Line
feeds seemed to have been misinterpreted, there were unprintable characters, and
some characters were lost.  After save, close, and reopen, the file looked fine,
so it was just the visual presentation that was broken, not the underlying document.

Build: I20030917

I tried to format the file Workspace.java.  The file I tried to comment is
attached, along with a screen capture of what it looked like afterwards.  Line
feeds seemed to have been misinterpreted, there were unprintable characters, and
some characters were lost.  After save, close, and reopen, the file looked fine,
so it was just the visual presentation that was broken, not the underlying document.
Created attachment 6148
zipped JPG showing mangled presentation
Created attachment 6149
File that was being commented
Note also that it made very poor decisions about how to comment some of my
single line comments.  Here is one example:

			resources = (IResource[]) resources.clone(); // to
			// avoid
			// concurrent
			// changes
			// to
			// this
			// array

(This was previously all on one line).  The attached file shows the results
after formatting.
John, is formatting comments enabled?

Tobias please comment.
Created attachment 6153
My Eclipse preference export file

Yes, partially.  I had turned most of it off because it was doing very strange
things to my code.  The only thing I had enabled was "format snippets". Import
my preferences to see exactly what I had enabled.
I am not able to reproduce the broken presentation that your screenshot 
displays. The bug you mention in comment 3 has been fixed however.
The formatter now aligns the splitted single-line comment with the comment 
begin. Note that the alignment is only perfect using mono-space fonts.
I am seeing this when formatting several classes, and I'm getting other strange
behaviour as well on formatting.  In another case, the editor gets into a state
where it does not redraw at all, although the rest of the platform (and other
editors) remain responsive and usable.  In this situation I have to close and
reopen the editor before I can see anything.  Attaching another screen dump
along with the file I was formatting.
Created attachment 6171
Editor no longer painting
Created attachment 6172
File that was being formatted in second screen shot
Here are steps to reproduce (you might need to import my preferences first)

1. Create the following compilation unit:

public class A {
	public int foo() {
		//this is a comment that will be wrapped to span multiple lines because it is
very long.
		return 0;
	}
}

(NOTE: The long comment is all on one line)

2. Go into "show source of selected element only" mode.
3. Select method foo in the content outline, so the editor only shows the
contents of foo
4. Ctrl+Shift+F to format.  This is the result (plus some unprintable characters
that don't seem to paste into bugzilla):

	public int foo() {
		//this is a comment that will be wrapped to span multiple lines
		// because it is very
ong.
		ret
n 


Eclipse 3.0 M3

I had all sorts of problems with the code formatter until I disabled this:

Java->Work In Progress->"Enable formatting of Javadoc, multi- and single line
comments (reopen editor for activation)"

I guess that's why it's "In Progress" :)


Fixed > I20030923
Verified
