I20030930

I am not sure what this annotation is trying to show me, but as soon as I 
modify a source file, the entire file gets underlined with grey squiggles.

I have not found a way to turn it off of what triggers it. 
When I open a new type (using the open type dialog) the editor comes up clean.
I make a no op change (add, remove a space) then save and the annotations 
appear and will not go away until the editor is closed and reopened.

Pretty much makes Java editing unusable as the squiggles are updated on each 
key press.

I will attach a pic.

I20030930

I am not sure what this annotation is trying to show me, but as soon as I 
modify a source file, the entire file gets underlined with grey squiggles.

I have not found a way to turn it off of what triggers it. 
When I open a new type (using the open type dialog) the editor comes up clean.
I make a no op change (add, remove a space) then save and the annotations 
appear and will not go away until the editor is closed and reopened.

Pretty much makes Java editing unusable as the squiggles are updated on each 
key press.

I will attach a pic.
Created attachment 6290
More squiggles than you know what to do with...
In my workspace grey sqiggles are search results.  You can try turning it off
under Java > Editor > Annotations.
Thanks but I had already tried that and the squiggles remained.
Did you assign gray to another annotation (I suspect Diff *)?
Try disabling quick diff.
I had not assigned gray to quick diff.
Only search results annotations claimed to be associated with gray in the text.
I believe I tried disabling just about every annotation that I could find.
Does disabling quick diff help?
Were there search results?
Any steps to reproduce?
Do you have some third party plug-ins (or samples) installed?
All four are no but I will try more when I get to the workspace at work.

There seemed to be nothing I could do to restore the workspace to a usable 
state.

The problem showed in all editors once they were "dirty"
Sorry, I was wrong.
Turning off Java>Work in Progress>Always show Quick Diff coloring fixed the 
problem.
Turning it back on, the problem has yet to reappear...
Darin, can you please tell us which quick diff reference provider you are using
(disk or CVS).

Tom, please investigate.
hmm - cannot reproduce.

I still assume that your preferences say to show quick diff annotations in text.
Could it be that the file you were trying to edit was not under version control?
Somehow quick diff thought the entire file was changed, but perhaps there just
was no reference, and a quick diff provider returned an empty document instead. 

Will investigate with the new CVS reference provider.
Can reproduce similar behaviour when the following is true:

- quick diff change annotations set to show in text (who would want that?)
- project shared via CVS
- file is new, i.e. not yet added to version control

-> entire file is new when compared to the revision on VCM
-> entire file gets marked as added / changed

Workaround
1. Don't show change annotations in text
2. Disable quick diff (Ctrl+Shift+Q) in a new file if the the change annotations
bug you

Please let me know whether this solves the problem for now.

In your case, however, the file was already under version control, so it is a
different case. Might be a concurrency problem in a reference provider - are
there any logged CVS or other exceptions in the log?

Filed bug 44054 on platform-vcm that resources without remote version should not
have a reference document.
Martin just had the same bug. There must be some annotation setting that
configures UNKNOWN annotations to be shown in text and overview ruler.
fixed > 20031002

ExtendedTextEditor.configureSourceViewerConfigurationSupport still added the
obsolete UNKOWN marker type.

workaround to set the following preference entries in the jdt-ui and ui-editors
preference ini files to false:

othersIndication=false
othersIndicationInOverviewRuler=false
