The "Find Occurrences in File" function should be performed without user 
intervention at the actual caret position. As alternative presentation of the 
results see PR 40089.

The "Find Occurrences in File" function should be performed without user 
intervention at the actual caret position. As alternative presentation of the 
results see PR 40089.
Bug 40089 seems to be unrelated.
Try #45089.
released first cut of this feature.
missing: a remove occurrences action
I20031023 + editorWorks
Set the caret into some identifier to which other occurrences are found.
Move caret to end of line and start typing. Typing removes the background 
highlight and reapplies it later on.  There are several issues with this 
approach:
1) The reapplication of the background relies on the fact that a annotation 
model changed event is fired. This is only true for non-incremental 
reconcilers. If an editor works with an incremental reconciler this approach 
fails.
2)Removing the background reveals the damage strategy of the presentation 
reconciler. This must not be the fact. On typing either all background should 
be removed or none. Preferrable is that the background is stable.
3) The background highlight is not removed when the caret is moved to a 
location for which "find occurrences" is unsuccessful. When typing a new line 
that introduces new occurrence of the already highlighted indentifier this new 
occurrence is not highlighted.

The current approach is good enough for reading code but not for modifying 
code. For now we either need to merge the presentation reconcilation and the 
background part of the annotation painter or we need to change our 
implementation to use the line style listener approach, i.e. the merge would 
happen on the model the line style listener uses to setup the line style 
events. The final solution is to use the line style listener.
Copied comments (except 3) to the correct PR (bug 45089).

>3) The background highlight is not removed when the caret is moved to a 
>location for which "find occurrences" is unsuccessful. When typing a new line 
>that introduces new occurrence of the already highlighted indentifier this new 
>occurrence is not highlighted.
Maybe we can clear when we type but not on other selection changes. We used it
here (not just to demo) and found that it is not very handy when the occurrence
annotations disappear as soon as you change the selection. I also did not find
it a problem that it did not hot-update.

Remaining problems have been sorted out.
