20031119

The Generalize Tree wizard dialog contains a tree viewer showing the super types
of the selected variable's type.
Certain types are in grey and not selectable.

It would be good if there is a description what grey means. I guess I would use
the status line for this.

Another UI rule is that if an element is not selectable at all, it shouldn't be
presented in the selection dialog except if it's a tree node where some children
are selectable.

20031119

The Generalize Tree wizard dialog contains a tree viewer showing the super types
of the selected variable's type.
Certain types are in grey and not selectable.

It would be good if there is a description what grey means. I guess I would use
the status line for this.

Another UI rule is that if an element is not selectable at all, it shouldn't be
presented in the selection dialog except if it's a tree node where some children
are selectable.
Rather than putting the description of what a greyed item means into the 
status line we can add it to the label put above (see bug 46981).

Removing those parts of the tree that don't contain any selectable types makes 
sense as well.

Not critical for M5.
One additional note: if we remove all unselectable types than the tree appears 
empty if no type can be selected. Then we should remove the tree and display a 
label, saying that the declaration can't be changed.
When no type can be selected then, I think, it would be ok to show all types 
and have them all in the disabled look.

What could be nice is that first the full hierarchy is shown, the wizard still 
calculates and but then when done, the unselectable entries are filtered.
(except if they are needed to complete the tree)
There are several issues here.

In some cases, the computation of valid types takes a significant amount of time.
During this time, the wizard should show *something*. Specically, I think it
should show the supertype hierarchy.

When the tree is computed, we can remove branches that are entirely grayed out.
On the other hand, I'm not sure if I like the idea of completely removing the
tree if there are no valid types. I'd like to think about that some more.

I also think that it would be nice if the wizard could provide some clue as
to *why* a specific supertype cannot be selected.

This will have to wait until M6.
Improved in the following way:

- there is now a hint in the UI telling users waht gray items means
- if they select a gray item a message appears explaining that the time
  can not be used as a type replacement.

Removing parts of the tree might result in a "strange" UI. Sometimes you see 
certain types sometime you don't.

Fixed for M6.
