3.0 M5

After running the code formatter on a java file, the visual presentation of the
editor disappeared and would reappear in bits and pieces as I moved the mouse
around.  Any attempt to manipulate the editor resulted in exceptions in the log
(attaching log).  I had to close all editors and restart eclipse before it got
back into a usable state.

3.0 M5

After running the code formatter on a java file, the visual presentation of the
editor disappeared and would reappear in bits and pieces as I moved the mouse
around.  Any attempt to manipulate the editor resulted in exceptions in the log
(attaching log).  I had to close all editors and restart eclipse before it got
back into a usable state.
Created attachment 6954
zipped log file
Could be a more general SWT problem.  UI was completely broken after this
(missing views, sporadic painting, etc), although still responsive.  Here is a
sample screen cap (note two upper views are invisible but remaining views look
fine).
Created attachment 6955
JPG showing broken visual presentation
John, have you used the segmented view?
I always use the segmented java editor, if that's what you mean.
Happened again today.  Same sort of result... 100K of errors in log, corrupt
visual presentation, had to shutdown and restart.  It also happened while trying
to format java code in a segmented editor.  The first glitch I saw was a funny
symbol at the end of each line in the editor (as if it could not display the
line termination character correctly).  After that point any action in the
editor completely messed up the presentation.  The underlying file is fine when
I open it again after restarting.
Created attachment 6973
File that was being formatted

This time I was editing a very simple file so I am attaching it.  I had a
segmented editor open on the "run" method.  Note that there are syntax errors
in the file.
Created attachment 7521
Another screen cap (jpg)

This happened again with build I20040120
Created attachment 8217
Reproduced in I20040225 on Win2k
Created attachment 8219
Source file being formatted

This is the file that was being formatted in the previous screen shot.	Note
that it has syntax errors.  I also hit format very quickly after some typing,
so
it is possible that the reconciler has not run yet.  Perhaps it's formatting
based on out of date line positions?
Fixed in I200403231208. The problem was that at one point we updated the child 
document's range in the parent document but did not update the line tracker. 
