In the package explorer, copy any file (e.g. a Java file), and paste it to the 
same directory. The file is created to the file system, but the Eclipse does 
not show it in the package explorer! However, I can find the new file using 
CTRL+SHIFT+R. Refreshing does not work. Workaround is to close and re-open 
Eclipse.

I have no idea why it works sometimes and sometimes not. Same kind of problems 
occur rarely in the Java editor; paste seems to return a different string that 
was copied (a substring).

In the package explorer, copy any file (e.g. a Java file), and paste it to the 
same directory. The file is created to the file system, but the Eclipse does 
not show it in the package explorer! However, I can find the new file using 
CTRL+SHIFT+R. Refreshing does not work. Workaround is to close and re-open 
Eclipse.

I have no idea why it works sometimes and sometimes not. Same kind of problems 
occur rarely in the Java editor; paste seems to return a different string that 
was copied (a substring).
A reproduceable test case would really be helpful here. When you see it the 
next time can you please try the following: close and reopen the project 
containing the file instead of closing and restarting Eclipse. If you see the 
file then its a refreshing problem. 
Well, I managed to get the bug again and did as you explained. I see the file 
after closing and reopening the file. So it is a refreshing problem. BTW: even 
after reopening, when I delete any file, THAT is also not shown in the package 
explorer.
Do you have steps to reproduce ?
xx
The bug seem to always appears when I have used Eclipse "for some time" for 
Java coding. Haven't figured out yet can I actually get the bug by doing 
something. I'll try that and report here.
I can confirm, unfortunately I have no bug reproducing pattern, either. Just
'sometimes' Ctrl+C/Ctrl+V seems to have no effect, but closing and reopening the
project makes the new file visible ... there is nothing in the error log ...
maybe only a related bug, but i also have problems with copy paste in package 
explorer, but when the problem occurs the copy is not created at all (so this 
is not a refreshing problem in my case). It seems that it happens only when 
the source is read-only (even if the project is shared), cause if i select 
team->edit on the source, then the copy paste works. Moreover, this is only 
the case if i paste the source to another package.
FYI, i am using eclipse 3.0M7 and i share my project with CVS.
Should investigate for 3.0
I fixed a cases where read-only files weren't copied correctly and could lead 
to a non updated package explorer. The fix went into M9. Please reopen if you 
still see this in M9.
