I must say that I am very impressed with the new code formatter. However 
clicking the edit button on the preferences page and proceeding to modify my 
code formatter preferences and subsequently hitting ok does not save the 
preferences. The only way to update my preferences is to hit save... and then 
hit load...
I200312020950

I must say that I am very impressed with the new code formatter. However 
clicking the edit button on the preferences page and proceeding to modify my 
code formatter preferences and subsequently hitting ok does not save the 
preferences. The only way to update my preferences is to hit save... and then 
hit load...
I200312020950
Hm, I cannot reproduce this behaviour here on a clean workspace. Can you provide
reproducible steps? What do you mean with "the preferences are not saved":

* The selected profile is not updated with the newly edited options?
* The selected profile is not applied when formatting in the text?
* The profile is not stored so it disappears when you quit the pref page?

What I can say though is that not yet all options are correctly recognized when
actually formatting something a selection in the text (for example the braces
settings). This is due to the new formatter which still evaluates the old
settings and tries to emulate them using the appropriate new options, which
overwrites some of them. This will be fixed soon.
what I meant was that the selected profile is not updated with the newly edited 
options!

1. Create new Profile based on default
2. click ok - to close preferences dialog
3. open preferences dialog
4. Click edit (in the formatter preferences section)
5. change any value e.g. "Braces positions for class declaration" to "next line"
6. click ok
7. click ok - to close preferences dialog
8. open preferences dialog
9. click edit - the change isn't there "Braces positions for class declaration" 
is still set to "same line"

I hope that clarifies what I am experiencing!!
Ok, I see what you mean. I've followed your steps but I still don't encounter
this behaviour here.

* Have you tried it on a clean workspace?

* Are there any messages in your log (in your workspace directory in
.metadata/.log)?

* After step 7 of your list, can you go into
.metadata/.plugins/org.eclipse.jdt.ui/ and 
  1) check whether there is a file code_formatter_profiles.xml 
  2) check whether the file's content has been correctly 
     written and reflects the changes you made?
The problem is reproducable on a clean workspace!

Nothing is added to the .log file

the file you have mentioned does not change after step 7 unless I perform the 
workaround outlined in comment 0.
I am using Windows 2000 with JDK 1.4.2_02 and eclipse I200312020950
Ok, I was able to reproduce it, it becomes only apparent with I200312020950.

This problem was that newly created profiles didn't know their profile manager,
as this field was not initialized on creation. Therefore, they couldn't notify
anyone about their changes, including the XML file updater which is responible
for persistence. However, a load or remove action of another profile triggered
this event, which explains why it worked on save/load.

This is already fixed in the latest revision of the page in CVS, so it should be
ok for all upcoming versions. Thanks for the report.
*** Bug 48146 has been marked as a duplicate of this bug. ***
