I like the new options for the code formatter, but when I change them I am unable to click 'OK' as the 
button is greyed out when the preference window is opened and clicking checkboxes does not seem to 
un-enable it. I cannot change either the 'default' or 'Java' profiles (though I can create a new one and 
change that).

I do not know if this is a bug or feature; but if it is a feature, I think a warning message should be 
displayed saying 'The default is not changeable' and it should not be possible to select any of the 
checkboxes, rather than not being able to commit the changes once they are made.

I like the new options for the code formatter, but when I change them I am unable to click 'OK' as the 
button is greyed out when the preference window is opened and clicking checkboxes does not seem to 
un-enable it. I cannot change either the 'default' or 'Java' profiles (though I can create a new one and 
change that).

I do not know if this is a bug or feature; but if it is a feature, I think a warning message should be 
displayed saying 'The default is not changeable' and it should not be possible to select any of the 
checkboxes, rather than not being able to commit the changes once they are made.
Mac OS X.3.2 using Eclipse 3.0M7
You need to create a new settings based on one of the two existing settings. You
cannot directly edit the predefined settings.
Did you try this?
Move to JDT/UI.
Yes, I did create a new set and could edit that.

However, I do not believe that it is good UI practice to disable the 'OK' button to prevent changes (for 
the default settings); instead, all of the other UI elements should be disabled, along with a message 
saying 'Create a new settings to modify' or similar.
This is intended to allow the user ti try out some changes without having to
create an own profile.
There is also a message line telling you that changes can not be saved.
This is a bad UI implementation.  To fix this cleanly, you should offer two 
choices from the preview window.

1) Save.  Greyed out if it's a default profile and not saveable.
2) Save As.  Always available to let people save the profile as some other 
name.  That way they can start with a default, tweak it, see the changes and 
either choose to save AS, or to not save the changes.  This fulfils Martin's 
comments about letting people play and see what changes without saving, but 
affords them the option to save the changes if they desire.
This is not a desirable solution.

It should not allow the user to spend a long time (about 10 mins, in my case) creating a set of 
formatting preferences only to discover that these changes have to be thrown away because of a bad UI 
decision.

The whole purpose of a disabled checkbox/button/field is to show what the value that field has, but 
without changing it. And it is *definitely not* desirable to let someone change fields from a preferences 
point of view if these cannot be saved.

Further, there is no point in 'letting the user see what they can do' -- when they then have to throw 
away whatever they have done at the end of it. Otherwise, you risk the serious disappointment of a user 
fine-tuning it to exactly what they want, and have to throw away their code.

Would you have a text editor that allowed you to type Java code but not allow saving it because you 
were showing off the syntax highlighting? No, you wouldn't. Nor should you be able to do this with 
preferences.

Valid options would be to do one of the following:

o Allow editing of the default profile
o Allow the UI to have 'Save new profile as' to create a new profile (if the original one cannot be 
modified)
o Disable all UI widgets to show the user what is possible, but don't let them change it without creating 
a new profile first of all

It would not be valid to leave the situation as is. Whilst this may work as the programmer first 
anticipated, it is *not* a sensible UI decision and as such I am reopening this bug for further attention.
This does seem to be a bit of a problem for the average user - coming from
earlier versions of Eclipse where I could go into the formatting options and
change things without having to worry about profiles, it's an unexpected extra
layer of complexity, and clearer visual cues would be appreciated. What was the
rationale behind deciding the default profile couldn't be changed? (Not saying
it's a bad idea, just curious...)

As a side note, using the Linux/GTK M7 build, the message at the bottom of the
formatting preferences window isn't displayed in full at the default window size
- it's abbreviated to something along the lines of "This is a built-in profile,
all...rted after closing this dialog." Which isn't hugely helpful: leaves the
inactive OK button as the only cue to work from, and I might (wrongly) assume
this is only inactive because I haven't changed any settings.
The 'Save..', 'Save as..' suggestion makes sense to me. 
Ok button is enabled again, and you will get a dialog to enter a new name
> 20040328
