Smart cursor positioning in java names don't work for CONSTANT_NAMES both when
moving and deleting (Ctrl+Delete). I assume it should as CONSTANT_NAMES are
equally part of a Java naming standard just as methodNames() are. In case it
works as designed then option name should be changed to accurately describe its
actual function.

Linux 3.0M8

Smart cursor positioning in java names don't work for CONSTANT_NAMES both when
moving and deleting (Ctrl+Delete). I assume it should as CONSTANT_NAMES are
equally part of a Java naming standard just as methodNames() are. In case it
works as designed then option name should be changed to accurately describe its
actual function.

Linux 3.0M8
Christof, haven't you fixed this? The left-to-right case seems to work but
right-to-left still stops at _

I200405210010

Going from left to right stops before and after the _, from right to left stops
on the right side of the _.

What's the desired behaviour?

Desired behavior is that it doesn't stop anywhere inside CONSTANT_NAMES if
Java->Editor->Typing->"Smart cursor positioning in Java names" is turned off.
If the preference is turned off we should use the default behaviour.

If the preference is turned on we should only stop to the right of an (last in a
sequence) underscore.

Regarding comment 3: when smart cursor positioning is turned off, the behaviour
is platform dependent (given by SWT).

Cases when smart cursor positioning is turned on are fixed in builds >20040524.

Closing, please reopen if you diagree.

start verifying
verified in I200406110010
I'm not sure how platform dependency affects this but 3.0RC2 Linux/GTK still
stops in the middle of constant names with underlines when
Window->Preferences->Editor->Navigation->'Smart caret positioning in Java
names...' is turned off.

If the default GTK platform behavior (as a mere user I have no idea why it needs
to be platform-dependant) is that this setting is ignored (ie. both turned on
and off give the same result) then I believe it should override platform
behavior in both cases (on and off) to be considered really usable.
I'm not sure but there may be a problem. Recently-fixed bug #58100 requires
Preferences > Java > Editor > Navigation > [x] Smart caret positioning in Java
names (...) switch which, if I understand, also affects behavior this bug is
dealing with. So, if it is this way indeed I believe it's necessary to allow
user to independently select smart behavior (in the bug #58100 sense) but
disable smart behavior when dealing with cursor positioning - they're two
separate issues I believe.

Of course I may be wrong then please disregard this comment.
The 'smart cursor positioning' feature is meant to override the default
behaviour with a Java-specific behaviour. The default behaviour is given by SWT
and can be different for each platform.

Please open a new bug report unless you object to how this bug (i.e., smart
CONSTANT_NAME cursor positioning) has been fixed.

