Are there plans to generalize the spellchecker engine so it can be used in
other editors? Right now it is in internal.ui.text.spelling. It seems that
the reconciling spell checker could be used in many text based editors. I 
would like to be able to add it to my text editor.

Are there plans to generalize the spellchecker engine so it can be used in
other editors? Right now it is in internal.ui.text.spelling. It seems that
the reconciling spell checker could be used in many text based editors. I 
would like to be able to add it to my text editor.
This is not planned for 3.0.
Is a generilzed spell checker going to be available in 3.1 that can be used in
other plug-in editors besides Java?
Hi Paul, this is actually already possible i.e. you can now get a spelling 
service (API still under construction):
  EditorsPlugin.getDefault().getSpellingService();
and use it. The Properties file editor is another editor besides the Java editor
who already offers spell checking. It is not yet built into the text editor
framework i.e. you have to write the code that uses the spelling engine yourself. 

This is planned for 3.1 M6. The biggest parts here are:
- add quick fix to enable the correction of problems
- install reconciler to check the text upon typing

I mark this one as fixed since the spelling engine has been generalized (see new
extension-point "spellingEngine" and package
"org.eclipse.ui.texteditor.spelling" package in plug-in
org.eclipse.ui.workbench.texteditor).

There's bug 51444 requesting spell checking for the text editors.
Are there any plans to open up the spelling API some more? 

Sure, you can extend spellingEngine and use EditorsUI.getSpellingService(), but you're still pretty much on your own, with very basic interfaces. 

The spelling service works fine for checking individual words, and turning them into spelling annotations. But providing quick fix for those annotations has to be implemented from scratch, and that implementation cannot support general addition of words and ignoring of words, since ISpellChecker isn't part of the API.

Same problems when trying to write a spelling engine that does more than just check a word.

So, basically I would very much like to know what the plans are for this API. I'd hate to copy lots of code, write around lots of code, and then 2 months from now a complete and mature spelling API is released :)

Thanks for any help!

Please add your comments to 51444 which is about providing spelling by Platform Text for text editors.
