20040420

1. do 'Introduce Factory' on OldASTRewrite(ASTNode) in jdt.corext.dom
2. No updates in the test projects (org.eclipse.jdt.tests.ui) that require
jdt.ui and have references to the constructor

20040420

1. do 'Introduce Factory' on OldASTRewrite(ASTNode) in jdt.corext.dom
2. No updates in the test projects (org.eclipse.jdt.tests.ui) that require
jdt.ui and have references to the constructor
Bob, this is critical and must be fixed for M9. Can you please investigate.
Yes, a simple matter of using project rather than workspace scope in the search 
for call sites. The fix is ready; I'll attach it.
Created attachment 10368
Patch for jdt.ui against I2004-0504 to fix bug

Trivial one-line patch to use workspace scope instead of project scope for the
SearchEngine query.
Created attachment 10369
Patch for jdt.ui.tests.refactoring against I2004-0504 to add JUnit test for bug fix
Simply taking the workspace scope isn't the right thing to do since this will 
cause lots of grief if you have the same source twice in the workspace (within 
different projects or source folders). I changed the code so that the 
refactoring scope factory is used.

Additionally I had to go through all the test resources to add package 
declaration statements. Bob, when you create a CU for testing in a package p 
there must be a package declaration statement in the source code otherwise the 
Java model will not function correctly.

I released the additional test cases. Bob, can you please verify the code 
changes I made.
Well of course I know that... I could swear I put package declarations in. 
Before attaching the patch file, I naturally ran all the JUnit tests with these 
modifications and they all passed (including the new multi-project test case).

Hmmm... I'm looking at the patch that added the JUnit tests and the resource 
files there *do* have a reasonable-looking package declaration.

I'm not sure what's going on here. I know you've probably got a lot on your 
plate right now, but can you check again?

On the other hand, if you're talking about the resources for bug #48504, it 
looks like I may indeed have forgotten to put in pkg decls there. Sorry for 
that one!

As for the changes to createSearchScope(), they look fine to me.
All the old test cases didn't have package declaraion statements. The new ones 
do.
To which "old ones" are you referring? I've looked at the original 
jdt.ui.tests.refactoring patch files in Bugzilla for all of my bugs over the 
last few months, and only the two resource/Java files ("A.java" and "B.java") 
for #48504 were missing pkg decls. All the others either had them, or didn't 
need them b/c they were in the default package.

Sorry to be a nudge, but if there really is something going on here, I want to 
know so I don't make the same mistake in the future.
All the files in positive and negative didn't had package declaration 
statemens but where created in the a package p in the test cases. I added a 
package declaration statement to all those tests files.
