I work in Tech Support at IBM. One of my customers reported a defect in the 
Java Editor of a tool we call WebSphere Development Studio Client (WDSc) 
Version 5.1. It's also called WebSphere Studio Applications Developer (WSAD). 
I went through several IBM departments and was finally told that the problem 
is in the open source Eclipse editor, so report it there. I'm not sure of your 
terminology, so I'm just guessing at the product and component.

  According to the WDSc HELP text, in "Keyboard shortcuts for the workbench, 
Java development tools, and the Debug perspective" and several other places in 
the HELP text, Shift+Tab is supposed to move the cursor to the left. However, 
Tab and Shift+Tab both move text to the right. Using Shift + Tab for backtab 
is also a windows standard.

  Here's what the last IBMer said - hopefully it'll be helpful: "Action taken: 
verified that indeed it is misbehaving this way in WSAD and also in latest 
Eclipse 3M8 driver.  In Eclipse 3M8 it is possible to assign the key 
combination, but it doesn't act on it in any way.  So it seem a bug in Eclipse 
(java editor is part of Eclipse open source base.)"

I work in Tech Support at IBM. One of my customers reported a defect in the 
Java Editor of a tool we call WebSphere Development Studio Client (WDSc) 
Version 5.1. It's also called WebSphere Studio Applications Developer (WSAD). 
I went through several IBM departments and was finally told that the problem 
is in the open source Eclipse editor, so report it there. I'm not sure of your 
terminology, so I'm just guessing at the product and component.

  According to the WDSc HELP text, in "Keyboard shortcuts for the workbench, 
Java development tools, and the Debug perspective" and several other places in 
the HELP text, Shift+Tab is supposed to move the cursor to the left. However, 
Tab and Shift+Tab both move text to the right. Using Shift + Tab for backtab 
is also a windows standard.

  Here's what the last IBMer said - hopefully it'll be helpful: "Action taken: 
verified that indeed it is misbehaving this way in WSAD and also in latest 
Eclipse 3M8 driver.  In Eclipse 3M8 it is possible to assign the key 
combination, but it doesn't act on it in any way.  So it seem a bug in Eclipse 
(java editor is part of Eclipse open source base.)"
Move to JDT/UI
Are you sure that the client's product is based on 2.1.1? I see that it has
changed in the 3.0 stream but not in 2.1.x stream.


No, not sure of the version at all - as I mentioned, there are uncountable 
names and versions for everything in this product, and I have yet to figure 
out any pattern to any of it.
  The product that my customer has and that I used to reproduce the error is 
called "WebSphere Development Studio Client Advanced Edition for iSeries"
Version: 5.1.0.2 Build id: 20040127_1200
  When IBM Support said to contact Eclipse and I tried to fill out the bug 
report, none of the categories matched anything I had ever seen before, so I 
went to Help - About on WDSc and looked for things beginning with "Eclipse." 
Almost everything I found had 2.1.1 in it somewhere - you can't copy/paste 
text from these screens like normal Windows text, so I took a screen shot of 
the Help screen showing the versions. I can't paste THAT into this document, 
but will try to send it to your email address as an attachment. The top two 
lines read like this:
Provider     Feature Name                       Version  Feature ID
--------     ------------                       -------  ----------
Eclipse.org  Eclipse Java Development Tools       2.1.1  org.eclipse,jdt   
Eclipse.org  Eclipse Java Development Tools SDK   2.1.1  org.eclipse.jdt.source

  Wouldn't it be fairly simple to just edit some Java source with whatever you 
call your editor, and press Shift and Tab together? If it moves the cursor 
right instead of left, you've reproduced it.


Could you please check the behavior in the default text editor for me.

Note: I tested the Text and the Java Editor using Eclipse 2.1, 2.1.1 and 2.1.2
and they all work as expected. Looking at the file you sent me I see versions
with 4 digits these are not official (or at least not open sourced) versions.


  When I right-click a Java source file, I have five editor options 
under "Open With": 
1. Java Editor
2. Visual Editor
3. Text Editor
4. System Editor
5. Default Editor
  Four of these move the cursor to the right for both Tab and Shift+Tab: 1 and 
5 (which are the same), 2 and 3 (which is the Text Editor you asked about.) 
Only #4, the "System Editor" moves the cursor to the left; that's from an 
older product iSeries-specific product called CODE/400.
  Is there any way I can get version information from WITHIN an editor? I 
tried everything I could think of but couldn't find a way.

The problem isn't in the Java land but rather in the Platform land. I will have
to get a 2.1.1.1 build to check.

Note: as long as there's no confidential data it is better to attach files to
this bug report instead of e-mailing it.

  Sorry, was looking at the top and bottom of the screen for an attachment 
option, and just now saw it a little above this text box.
  Does the info from Robert on the WebSphere Work Bench team help any? He said 
he was using the "Eclipse 3M8 driver" and was able to reproduce. I can give 
you contact info for him if you'd like to bypass me and work with someone who 
knows your product.

Robert's observation is correct, as already pointed out in comment 2 I also see
the bug in our pre-3.0 stream. However, WSAD/WDSc 5.1 is built on 2.1.x releases.

We will look at this for 3.0. It is probably not critical to be back-ported, is it?
  Checked with the customer, and he says a fix in 3.0 is acceptable. Not 
familiar with this bugzilla software - should I push the radio button for 
Resolve - Later or do you do that from your end after you've made any final 
notes?
Actually, we leave it open and mark the target to be 3.0. This allows you and us
to seem when a bug gets/is fixed.

Removing target milestone, no further action for 3.0.
I don't understand the last comment: do you mean you're NOT going to fix the 
problem in 3.0?

Yes, that's what it says and R3.0 is already declared.

Shift+Tab no longer shifts right in 3.0. It has the following behavior which I
think i OK (i.e. there's no left/right inconsistency anymore):
- if text is selected and there's at least one tab at the beginning of the line:
  ==> line shifted left one tab
- if nothing is selected and there's at least one tab at the beginning of the line:
  ==> line shifted left one tab
- if text is selected and there's no tab at the beginning of the line:
  ==> caret remains at current position
- if nothing is selected and there's no tab at the beginning of the line:
  ==> caret remains at current position

So, I'm actually marking this one as fixed for 3.0
