R3.0

I copied an existing workspace but had several problems due to hard coded paths
in files. One of them was caused by the fact that user defined spell checking
dictionary can only be stored as full local path instead of relative workspace
location where applicable.

The very bad thing about this is that it points into my original workspace and I
then can get very strange behavior and even modify/corrupt the original workspace.

I think it should be possible to copy an existing workspace and then use it
without running into various problems.

R3.0

I copied an existing workspace but had several problems due to hard coded paths
in files. One of them was caused by the fact that user defined spell checking
dictionary can only be stored as full local path instead of relative workspace
location where applicable.

The very bad thing about this is that it points into my original workspace and I
then can get very strange behavior and even modify/corrupt the original workspace.

I think it should be possible to copy an existing workspace and then use it
without running into various problems.
To be fixed for the generalized spelling engine
I really think this is an important feature request.

Workspaces should be completely path, machine and preferably operating system
independent.

In addition, all user-specific information such as CVS usernames should be saved
in text files only. Or if it's necessary for performance to cache them in some
binary files, modifications to the text files should automatically deprecate the
caches.

This way it would finally be possible (or is it now, I don't know how?) to use
text-formatting tools (like sed) to customize a workspace for a new developer so
that the user needs to do absolutely nothing besides start eclipse. And please
do not say that automation is not needed, it is.

Users of other (inferior) IDEs and processes are reluctant to adopt our more
efficient processes, but if I am able to give them eclipse and the workspace in
a zip file that enables them to participate in the project with zero
configuration besides unzip, it may be easier to convert them :)

(Importing a Team Project Set is far from automatic, when the workspace involves
several projects one of which contains a custom builder that needs to be run in
the Eclipse JVM and stuff like that.)

Deferred.


The idea is to also allow workspace relative dictionaries.
*** Bug 187773 has been marked as a duplicate of this bug. ***
Created attachment 73037
Patch

Now that is is possible to use variables in the path it would be logical to set the default user dictionary to: {workspace_loc}/.metadata/userDictionary for example. No one cares where the user dictionary is stored. Thus having to set it up on first use is suboptimal.
Thansk for the patch. Looks good. Just two things:
- please use the same NLS key prefix as all other strings in that class (or
  convert all other ;-)
- the new button has no mnemonic
Created attachment 73100
Updated Patch

Added L as mnomic
Created attachment 73101
missed the manifest

the manifest was missing in the last patch
Fixed in HEAD.
Available in builds > N20070709-0010.
Since I just had to look it up , the commit was this one:

http://git.eclipse.org/c/jdt/eclipse.jdt.ui.git/commit/?id=d235827d8379f62fd5c488aabdec635fbb5005a2
