On Windows 2000 Simplified Chinese using an English keyboard Ctrl-Space is 
mapped to change mode.

As a result the use of Ctrl-Space for code completion does not work in Chinese. 
However it does not prevent the OS from switching modes so have a locale 
specific accelerator would be suffecient to solve this.

On Windows 2000 Simplified Chinese using an English keyboard Ctrl-Space is 
mapped to change mode.

As a result the use of Ctrl-Space for code completion does not work in Chinese. 
However it does not prevent the OS from switching modes so have a locale 
specific accelerator would be suffecient to solve this.
Configurable key binding support will allow the user to change the key.
Is the suggestion to add a locale specific key binding for code assist?
This doesn't seem to be right solution. There might be other key bindings that 
should be locale and platform specific. 
No action required at this stage, but we should keep this in mind.

It's only a problem on Simplified Chinese, which although it may be an 
important locale, is not an officially supported locale for 2.0.
We should wait for the key binding story.

In general, though, we currently try to use keys that work in all locales and 
platforms, for consistency, and because we don't currently have a good story 
for locale- and platform-specific key bindings.
This locale is supported on 1.0 - we ship fragments for traditional and 
simplied Chinese (code zh_CW). I would expect the same 2.0.
Ctrl+K was used in 1.0. for Chinese.
Does not affect section 508.
With the keybinding support, it may suffice to define a secondary keybinding 
for code assist.  This will work as long as our use of Ctrl+Space does not 
block the IME from being activated.

This will be fine - the IME is activated before Eclipse so it is Eclipse that 
loses the Ctrl-Space.
Build F2.
Kai, how did you fix this?  By adding a second key binding?
There are duplicate key bindings for content assist in org.eclipse.jdt.ui's 
plugin.xml.

Ctrl+2 for Content Assist (usually Ctrl+Space).
Ctrl+Shift+2 for Parameter Hints (usually Ctrl+Shift+Space).

These only take effect when in the zh_CN locale.

