I200411022000

When starting a fresh workspace the "Use default compliance settings" check box
is no longer checked (was checked in 2.0 to 3.0.1 - didn't check 1.0). If a user
only changes compliance to 5.0 the settings will be incorrect and the project is
not usable for 5.0 development.

Martin please check whether we did something in the UI. If not, send down to J Core.

I200411022000

When starting a fresh workspace the "Use default compliance settings" check box
is no longer checked (was checked in 2.0 to 3.0.1 - didn't check 1.0). If a user
only changes compliance to 5.0 the settings will be incorrect and the project is
not usable for 5.0 development.

Martin please check whether we did something in the UI. If not, send down to J Core.
Erol, you could look into this one.
Changing the compliance should also set all other settings so that the default
is checked
Created attachment 15686
Patch

If the user changes the compliance level, then the compliance settings will be
set to default.

However, this does NOT mean that, starting a fresh workbench, will provide
default compliance settings. In fact, it will not be set to default until the
user changes it. The reason is that in JavaCore, the compiler options for the
last two comboboxes (assert & enum) are set to waring by default (see
CompilerOptions lines 314 & 315). But in CompilerConfigurationBlock, method
getCurrentCompliance expects other default values to be set. The result is that
the setting is always set to "user" instead to "default".

Changing this would be a task for JDT/Core, I think.
As said before: the checkbox should be checked as it was in all previous
versions of Eclipse. That's the correct out-of-the-box behavior. I was not
asking for Eclipse to change the settings when the box is not checked. In fact
I'd consider this a bug. Isn't it possible to have
1. checkbox unchecked
2. valid values for 1.3
3. change to 1.4 and values from 2. still valid but not 1.4 defaults

With the patch my values would be changed.

I understand what you want, Dani. The decision how the settins should be set is 
up to you (the team resp.). I just did what I was told to do.

The idea of the patch is to automatically change to default compliance settings 
as soon as the user changes the compliance level. So your observation was 
right: now you cannot hold the settings you had before (e.g. in 1.3) if you 
decide to change the compliance level to 1.4 (or 5.0). You would have to 
explicitly set the combo boxes to the state they were before.

The fact that the checkbox should be checked by default should be matter of 
JDT/Core, as I mentioned in Comment#2.

Martin, can you please comment on that issue, please?
filed bug 77964 to core

dani, does that happen often that you change from 1.3 to 1.4 and don't want 
any settings to change?
It's not about how often I do it. Not that often since I don't change compliance
settings that often as well.

Imagine another scenario:
0. open preference dialog
1. assume it's 1.3
2. switch to 1.4
3. switch back to 1.3
4. press OK

I could assume that I did not change my settings BUT since switching from 1.4
back to 1.3 resetted the settings I basically changed my settings without
clicking any of the check boxes below. Very unexpected behavior.

note that we remember the custom settings and as soon as you uncheck 
the 'default' button we restore the previous custom settings.


Yeah, that's fine, however, the discussion is about what happens when we flip
1.3,1.4 and 5.0 while the default check box is unchecked.
patch released > 20041108
