I cannot easily see the error description of an error in the current line.

- open some java code in an editor
- create an error in any line
- save

Notice: one or more errors shows up in the task viewer, however it is not clear
what error belongs to the current line.

Non-intuitive workarounds:
- move cursor to previous line and press Ctrl-E (Next Problem)
- or stay in current line and press Ctrl-Shift-E (Previous Problem)

It would be better if errors of the current line would be displayed in the 
statusline.

I cannot easily see the error description of an error in the current line.

- open some java code in an editor
- create an error in any line
- save

Notice: one or more errors shows up in the task viewer, however it is not clear
what error belongs to the current line.

Non-intuitive workarounds:
- move cursor to previous line and press Ctrl-E (Next Problem)
- or stay in current line and press Ctrl-Shift-E (Previous Problem)

It would be better if errors of the current line would be displayed in the 
statusline.
Another way to find out the error message is with the task list. When using the 
task list you get the line number in the list and you can compare it to the one 
in the status line.

Showing the error in the status line has the problem that there can be more 
than error on a line and there is now way to scroll through them.

Giving that you can scroll through the error messages with CTRL-E I'd consider 
the current solution to be aceptable from the accessability angle.
Nick what do you think?
The problem with the task list is that a newly generated error is not selected 
automatically. So if I have lots of other errors or warnings it is hard to spot 
the error of the 'current line'.
This is better than nothing, but it's not a very obvious way of seeing the 
message, particularly if the task list is hidden.
Given the usability problems with the task list, users may not have it open.
I would prefer to see a more visible solution provided by the text editor 
itself.
Do other products do better here?

I feel that changing the selection is not desirable since it's part of the 
user's state.  They may be working on a particular user-entered task, and want 
it to remain selected.
Another option would be to show the current line's error marker's hover by 
using a shortcut (without having to use the mouse). The shortcut would toggle 
the showing/hiding of the hover window. In case of multiple errors & warnings 
the hover window could list them all.
Just looked at VS.NET.  

On a build it shows the build output in the Output view (activating it).
If there are errors, it activates and updates the Task List view, switching it 
to the build errors filter (which hides any user-entered tasks).  It clears the 
selection in the Task List, but leaves the scroll position the same.
If there are no errors, the Output view remains active.
Esc gets you back to the editor.

In the editor, it shows squigglies under the range for an error, and hovering 
over the range shows the error message in a tooltip.
There seems to be no way of getting the error message via keyboard other than 
switching to the task list (Ctrl+Alt+K) and searching through the errors there.
Selecting an error does not show its error message in the status line, but you 
can choose "Show Description Tooltip" from the context menu.

When you double-click on an error (or hit Enter) it jumps to the appropriate 
place in the editor, highlights the range, and shows the full text of the error 
message in the status line in highlighted text, keeping it there as you edit.
Doing another build clears the whole state again.

I don't feel this is a good story for accessibility either, although by 
switching to the Task List and switching the filter, it allows the user to just 
arrow through the errors.  
Keeping the error message in the status line when back in the editor is a nice 
usability feature. 

We could also do as Andre suggests and have a tooltip on demand from the 
editor's context menu.  As mentioned above, they have this in the Task List in 
VS, but not in the editor.  When the tooltip is shown, Esc, Ctrl and Shift 
dismiss it with no other effect, other keys dismiss it and take effect; mouse 
movement has no effect, but mouse click anywhere dismisses it (and takes 
effect).

You can jump from error to error and press F2 to get the description (temporary 
problems will also be considering as part of the navigation sequence).

F2 is currently called Show Javadoc. We have to generalize it to Show 
Description Tooltip.



changed action name to Show Description Tooltip
