Inside a currently empty method, type "Sys".
Press CTRL-Space.

Current behaviour:
Content assist box appears, then immediately disappears.

Expected behaviour:
Content assist box should appear and stay up, so that I can navigate it using
either the mouse or the keyboard.

Notes:
Right clicking the mouse and selecting Content Assist yields the same result, so
this is not a keyboard specific problem.

Inside a currently empty method, type "Sys".
Press CTRL-Space.

Current behaviour:
Content assist box appears, then immediately disappears.

Expected behaviour:
Content assist box should appear and stay up, so that I can navigate it using
either the mouse or the keyboard.

Notes:
Right clicking the mouse and selecting Content Assist yields the same result, so
this is not a keyboard specific problem.
I'm using the build from 2002-01-15.

I am using build 2002-02-14. I do not encounter this bug.
Please specify whether you are using the GTK+ version or not, my guess is that
this is GTK+ specific.

I am using the Windows version. So you may be right in this being GTK+ specific.
Just wondering what the status on this bug is?
this basically makes the JDT useless for the GTK port.
i'm still encountering this problem in 2002-02-26.

There doesn't seem to be a way to vote bugs on this bugzilla, but I would hpe
that the severity+priority on this bug could get upped?

Upping severity to "major".  Note that I am the original reporter and not in any
way contributing to the fixing of this bug, so me labeling this as "major" does
not indicate that anybody is actually doing anything.  I'm just following the
severity criterion as described at
"http://bugs.eclipse.org/bugs/bug_status.html#severity".

OT: I agree that the lack of voting is really annoying.  The last information I
have on enabling it is from Coreen_Tyers@oti.com who on December 14 2001 said
that the "Eclipse Project PMC" had "discussed it, but did not close the issue".
 A couple of days ago I asked her for an update, but have yet to receive any
response :-(.

Reassigning to hopefully help resolving this faster.  Erich Gamma has 414 bugs,
Boris Shingarov has 14.  Also, AFAIU Boris is the person responsible for the
GTK+ port.  Apologize if this is wrong.

Yes, assigning this to me is the right thing.  I believe this bug is caused by 
the SWT/GTK focus-event code, which is code I wrote.
The whole focus story on SWT/GTK1.2 is broken, and the strategy is that we are 
rewriting it for the upcoming GTK2-based Eclipse.  I'll look at the code to see 
if a quick fix is possible, and do it; if not, this will have to wait until we 
migrate to GTK2.
Fixed in the 2.0 stream.
*** Bug 15187 has been marked as a duplicate of this bug. ***
