Version: 3.1.0
Build id: I20050125-0800

Currently italics are not rendered in the javadoc popups.  Styled text suports
the italic style, so this is now possible.  I have created a patch against
Html2TextRenderer (in JDT UI) that supports rendering <i> tags in javadoc.  The
solution is quite difficult because it has to support bold and italic at the
same time.

One thing i did notice is that JFace also has a version of this class.  Is it
possible to make it public API?  Could this change also be made to their copy?

Version: 3.1.0
Build id: I20050125-0800

Currently italics are not rendered in the javadoc popups.  Styled text suports
the italic style, so this is now possible.  I have created a patch against
Html2TextRenderer (in JDT UI) that supports rendering <i> tags in javadoc.  The
solution is quite difficult because it has to support bold and italic at the
same time.

One thing i did notice is that JFace also has a version of this class.  Is it
possible to make it public API?  Could this change also be made to their copy?
Created attachment 17454
Patch to Html2TextRenderer

Adds support for SWT.ITALIC style
Our goal is to use the SWT Browser widget. This is already the case for the
Javadoc view and since last I-build when pressing F2. We try to bring this into
the hovers for 3.1 too, rendering the HTML2TextReader useless.

Therefore there are currently no plans to add more features to Html2TextRenderer
or make it public. However, we could use this patch as a fallback i.e. if the
hovers can't be done for 3.1. Could you also attach additional test cases for
this new italic feature (see HTML2TextReaderTester in org.eclipse.jdt.text.tests)?

>Could this change also be made to their copy?
Yes, if I release the patch to one class I'll also promote it to the copies.
The changes to javadoc hover may render the changes unneeded in jdt land, but it
is still a valid thing for jface is it not?  They use the reader to present
additional info for content assist (it is the default info presenter).

I will write a test for the new functionality (may be a while though)
The additional info will also use the Browser widget (it's similar to hovers).
Created attachment 17458
Unit tests

I knew about the plan to replace the java hover, but nothing else (would be
cool though).

anyway, here is a patch to the Html2TextReaderTest.  I added a new assert to
verify style ranges.
Created attachment 17459
Unit Tests - Take 2

Previous patch is invalid.  Although the test cases are vaild, the assert
doesn't really check anything.	Does help if you actually check that the
expected equals the actual (and increment the counter)
Browser widget went live today.
