Tools > Options > Advacned > General > Edit Languages > Help

The Help button should go to the correct help entry, yet it opens the help homepage.

Tools > Options > Advacned > General > Edit Languages > Help

The Help button should go to the correct help entry, yet it opens the help homepage.
Created attachment 189585
patch v1.0

This fixes the problem mentioned in comment 0, but it has a side-effect.

By adding a link to the Languages part of the help to firebird-toc.rdf, I've
added a sub-item to Help Viewier > Options > Advanced > General.

If there's a way of doing this without adding that extra sub-item, then please
tell me how to do it :)
CC'ing Steffen Wilberg because he knows about help :)

The reason I don't like the extra "Languages" sub-item is because it looks
inconsistent. The "General" tab covers both Accessibility, Browsing and
Languages, so if I add that, I might aswell add those too..

But, then this makes it look inconcistent compared to other tabs, like Security,
which covers Protocols, Certificates, etc..

I'm probably taking this too far, but I'd like some advice.
displayTopic() calls getLink(), which only searches the toc, so we have to add
Languages to the toc.

The question is whether we can hide it. Jeff, any idea?
Comment on attachment 189585
patch v1.0

We can worry about cosmetic issues later if we've got the chance, so r=me.
(In reply to comment #3)
> displayTopic() calls getLink(), which only searches the toc, so we have to add
> Languages to the toc.
> 
> The question is whether we can hide it. Jeff, any idea?

getLink() searches through the entire RDF graph for the topic.  The code to
display a panel, however, starts from a specific node within the RDF graph
(urn:root) and works on all its descendants.  Therefore, if an added node isn't
a descendant of urn:root, it'll be getLink()-able but not displayable.

You could probably remove everything except the innermost rdf:Description whose
ID is "prefs-languages" and it'd still work.  "prefs-languages" would then be an
anonymous node and wouldn't be a descendant of urn:root, removing it from
display.  I haven't and can't test right now, tho, but this should either work
or be pretty darned close to the correct fix.

If this works, let's move it to the end of the file and add a comment saying all
the following rdf:Descriptions are intentionally linkable but not displayable. 
It's easily possible that we'll need more entries like this in the future, so we
might as well set up the location now.
Created attachment 189626
patch v1.1

Thanks for the help Jeff. This pretty much does what you said, and it works
perfectly!
I can't test it right now either.
Is "Languages" searchable? At the moment, entering "lang" in the search bar
results in only HTML and XML being found.
(In reply to comment #7)
> I can't test it right now either.
> Is "Languages" searchable? At the moment, entering "lang" in the search bar
> results in only HTML and XML being found.

I get the same with the patch (v1.1) applied.
Fun. But I guess we can fix this by adding "Languages" to the index, which is
only used for searching purposes in the new Help viewer.

Can you try that please?
Created attachment 189660
patch v1.2

Is this what you mean?

Now "Languages" shows up whenever I type "lang" or "l" or whatever :)
Comment on attachment 189660
patch v1.2

Exactly, thanks, and r=me.

Please don't forget to use the "-u" option in cvs diff. Bugzilla's patch-viewer
only understands unified diffs. No need to attach a new patch though.
(In reply to comment #11)
> (From update of attachment 189660 [edit])
> Exactly, thanks, and r=me.
> 
> Please don't forget to use the "-u" option in cvs diff. Bugzilla's patch-viewer
> only understands unified diffs. No need to attach a new patch though.
> 

I always create patches with -u8pN, must have slipped this time!
The patch was checked in by Gavin Sharp.


Help button in the language editing dialog does not go anywhere

