The new images for the address bar dropmarker have one problem: the middle section is shifted left 1 px.  This is becuse the images are 62px instead of 64px wide.  Pam is fixing this.

The new images for the address bar dropmarker have one problem: the middle section is shifted left 1 px.  This is becuse the images are 62px instead of 64px wide.  Pam is fixing this.
Created attachment 238483
Fixed mid-bottom image
Created attachment 238484
Fixed mid-top image

The images were missing their (empty) right and left edges, which shifted the image regions over by a pixel.
Comment on attachment 238484
Fixed mid-top image

Heh, oops. uir+a=beltzner
Landing two new images in toolkit/themes/winstripe/global/icons/.  Clearing blocking request.
Does this fix the fact that the address bar dropmarker isn't centered in current builds?  It's shifted to the right a pixel or so.

~B
(In reply to comment #5)
> Does this fix the fact that the address bar dropmarker isn't centered in
> current builds?  It's shifted to the right a pixel or so.

The triangle itself?  It doesn't change where that is, but it does change where it appears to be, by shifting the underlying gradient background to the right one pixel.  The triangle doesn't look off-center to me; if it does to you, could you please post a screenshot?
(In reply to comment #5)
> Does this fix the fact that the address bar dropmarker isn't centered in
> current builds?  It's shifted to the right a pixel or so.

As far as I can see, it isn't; the problem is that the dropmarker caret is an odd number of pixels wide, but the box it's inside has an even width.  Right now it's centered on the 9th pixel of 16, but centering on the 8th would be just as bad the other way.  The only way to fix this would be to change the width of one of the two parts, which I wouldn't recommend.

The Search Engine dropdown is an odd width sitting in an odd-width box, so it works OK.

The All Tabs button has the same problem as the address bar dropmarker, but is centered on the lefthand center pixel instead of the righthand one.  As a result, it looks as if it's shifted to the left.


Address bar dropmarker middle section is shifted left 1 px

fixed1.8.1