I downloaded the stub installer nightly, double-clicked on it to launch it and the first screen has this instruction on it:

"Thanks for choosing Nightly. We're not just designed to be different, we're different by design. Click to install."

I, being literal and actually not noticing the small "Install" button in the bottom left hand corner, click on the "Click to install" text and nothing happens.

I think the instructions should say something like, "Click on the Install button to install" or the UI should get adjusted or something.

I downloaded the stub installer nightly, double-clicked on it to launch it and the first screen has this instruction on it:

"Thanks for choosing Nightly. We're not just designed to be different, we're different by design. Click to install."

I, being literal and actually not noticing the small "Install" button in the bottom left hand corner, click on the "Click to install" text and nothing happens.

I think the instructions should say something like, "Click on the Install button to install" or the UI should get adjusted or something.
This was brought up previously and will require UX
*** Bug 799209 has been marked as a duplicate of this bug. ***
Created attachment 743992
screenshot of intro page

Stephen, can I get your input on what we can do with this text? Also, we want to change the button text to 'Upgrade' when installing on top of an existing install as we already do for the full installer (per a survey we did several years ago a significant number of users were confused when it says install when they are installing on top of an existing install and they cancelled instead of installing).

What I'd prefer is to separate the main blurb from the current 'Click to install.' and place it below the main blurb. As for text, the full installer uses "Click Install to continue." and "Click Upgrade to continue."
Comment on attachment 743992
screenshot of intro page

Stephen, see comment #3
I think we can just remove the "Click to install" text. The install button is self descriptive.
Created attachment 744186
patch rev1 - remove "Click to install."

Remove "Click to install." per comment #5
Pushed to mozilla-inbound
https://hg.mozilla.org/integration/mozilla-inbound/rev/873a6f5fe391
https://hg.mozilla.org/mozilla-central/rev/873a6f5fe391


"click to install" instruction not clear

polish

Remove 'Click to install' text from stub installer intro page - Bug 799147 - 'click to install' instruction not clear. r=bbondy, ui-r=shorlander - Windows stub installer which is only built when building the nightly so DONTBUILD 