The Pollinate project makes use of APT, Sun's Annotation Processing Tool. (This 
is forced on us by Apache Beehive, which Pollinate is based on.) Thus, 
Pollinate must know the location of tools.jar, which is where APT resides. This 
adds to the configuration burden for Pollinate users. It would be wonderful if 
an APT workalike based on JDT existed. This is no small task, and we don't know 
who else would use such a thing, although if it existed we suspect other open 
source projects would tend to adopt it, much like Tomcat 1.5 allows the use of 
JDT. But we wanted to get a request for this on the table.

The Pollinate project makes use of APT, Sun's Annotation Processing Tool. (This 
is forced on us by Apache Beehive, which Pollinate is based on.) Thus, 
Pollinate must know the location of tools.jar, which is where APT resides. This 
adds to the configuration burden for Pollinate users. It would be wonderful if 
an APT workalike based on JDT existed. This is no small task, and we don't know 
who else would use such a thing, although if it existed we suspect other open 
source projects would tend to adopt it, much like Tomcat 1.5 allows the use of 
JDT. But we wanted to get a request for this on the table.
Forgot to include the following links in the description:
Pollinate project - http://www.eclipse.org/pollinate
Beehive project - http://incubator.apache.org/projects/beehive.html

And the following link as well:
APT - http://java.sun.com/j2se/1.5.0/docs/guide/apt/GettingStarted.html
Annotations are new in Java 1.5 and provide very agile platform for language 
enhancements. APT tool plays quite important role in this direction. I will 
cite the Kyle Marvin from Bea’s Beehive project (full post is here : 
http://nagoya.apache.org/eyebrowse/ReadMsg?listName=beehive-
user@incubator.apache.org&msgNo=103 ) about key functionality of APT tool 
needed for Beehive:

- A model for how specific annotations are linked to specific processors that 
perform annotation validation.  JSR-175 only provides syntactic validation... 
but often annotations have semantic meaning in a particular usage context, and 
this needs to be validated as well.  The APT model is not a 'language' model, 
where all annotations in a file are expected to be understood by a single 
processor.  This enables use cases like pageflows that contain controls, and 
allows the pageflow processor to deal with the pageflow annotations and the 
control processor to deal with the control ones.  This offers a great deal of 
richness and flexibility w/out having to create dependencies between processors 
where it is unnecessary.

- A model for how annotations and the language entities they decorate are 
exposed to the processor.

- A model for how annotation errors, warnings, and info can be surfaced by a 
processor, whether by command line compilation or in the context of another 
tool (like an IDE).

- A model for how annotations can also generate new artefacts, both textual 
(like descriptors) and types (java source files) that themselves feed back into 
annotation processing and compilation.

I would add that these needs would be equally applicable almost to any tool 
that will target extensive JSR175 annotations support.

Alex.

I vote for annotations, too, since I am developing a domain-specific tool that is entirely based 
on annotation driven development. I guess there will be loads of such approaches in the next 
future... 
I've also noticed that there isn't a good way to get at the annotations on class
files, short of using IClassFileReader to parse it yourself.
APT support is aiming at leveraging these into JDT.
I'll resolve this bug once we have the APT project in HEAD for 3.2. Our current plan is to do so by M5.

In the meantime, there is a beta available that works with Eclipse 3.1.1. Documentation can be found at: http://www.eclipse.org/jdt/apt/index.html
As of Eclipse 3.2M5a, APT is included in Eclipse.


Provide APT workalike based on JDT

