Now that bug 345991 is fixed, there should be no need to use explicit wrappers in the session restore components.

Now that bug 345991 is fixed, there should be no need to use explicit wrappers in the session restore components.
Created attachment 235196
fix

wrapper removal. works fine on trunk, text is re/stored as usual.
Created attachment 236612
fix (removing non-working code paths for about:config)

This slightly more comprehensive patch additionally removes the unnecessary and non-working code paths for about:config and doesn't store two references to text areas where one is sufficient.

Dietrich: If you agree with these changes, please re-assign the bug to me and check it in on Trunk for testing. Thanks.
Comment on attachment 236612
fix (removing non-working code paths for about:config)

Drivers: This low-risk patch removes a broken code path (tracked by bug 350718) and all references to XPCNativeWrappers from SessionStore.

It'd be nice to have in order not to make extension authors looking through the included components for inspiration think that explicit native wrappers are still required.
Can we confirm that these objects are getting properly wrapped w/o the explicit use of native wrappers?
(In reply to comment #4)
> Can we confirm that these objects are getting properly wrapped w/o the explicit
> use of native wrappers?

The native wrappers are now guaranteed by bug 345991 and have led to bug 350718 (about:config's filter is no longer saved/restored because the relevant code required the absence of a native wrapper). So yes, we can confirm this.
Are there any benefits to this other than code cleanup?
Comment on attachment 236612
fix (removing non-working code paths for about:config)

We are closing in on the RC1 code freeze and are only taking bugs that match the criteria for 181 approvals:

http://developer.mozilla.org/devnews/index.php/2006/08/28/firefox-2gecko-181-approvals-2/

Since this is just code cleanup we are going to skip.  If there is another reason why we should take for the branch please note/re-nom.
For the XPCNativeWrapper parts, not really.  At least not that I can think of.


Remove use of explicit native wrappers in session restore service

