At the very least the button should go before we land in Nightly. Gating the context menu entries on shumway.debug.enabled probably too, but that could also wait until we ride the trains.

At the very least the button should go before we land in Nightly. Gating the context menu entries on shumway.debug.enabled probably too, but that could also wait until we ride the trains.
I think we should do this before landing in Nightly.
Can we outline the SWF's extent with a (yellow or magenta?) border? This would make identifying Shumway ads on a page easier. We could change the color of the border (to red?) to indicate when when Shumway hits an exception. This would make finding problem ads easier during day-to-day browsing because you wouldn't need to watch the browser console for a Shumway log message to scroll by.

We might consider moving the Shumway button's actions (fall back to Flash or report problem) to context menu items to avoid obscuring small Flash ads with the Shumway button.
(In reply to Chris Peterson [:cpeterson] from comment #2)
> Can we outline the SWF's extent with a (yellow or magenta?) border? This
> would make identifying Shumway ads on a page easier. We could change the
> color of the border (to red?) to indicate when when Shumway hits an
> exception. This would make finding problem ads easier during day-to-day
> browsing because you wouldn't need to watch the browser console for a
> Shumway log message to scroll by.

That's a great idea. Only quibble I have is that we might only do it if shumway.debug.enabled is set to true. Which is when we'd also show the button, according to the current plan. Or do you think it's much better to always show the outline for now?

> We might consider moving the Shumway button's actions (fall back to Flash or
> report problem) to context menu items to avoid obscuring small Flash ads
> with the Shumway button.

We already have the actions in the context menu in addition to the button.
(In reply to Till Schneidereit [:till] from comment #3)
> That's a great idea. Only quibble I have is that we might only do it if
> shumway.debug.enabled is set to true. Which is when we'd also show the
> button, according to the current plan. Or do you think it's much better to
> always show the outline for now?

Yes, that's what I meant. I think we should only show an outline when shumway.debug.enabled is true.
I implemented this for the button only in https://github.com/mozilla/shumway/pull/2181. We can do the rest once we ride the trains.


Only show red "Shumway" button if Shumway-debugging is enabled via about:config

