It was turned on by default in Bug 1072181, but as far as I can tell based on discussions in IRC, we don't actually want it to be.

It was turned on by default in Bug 1072181, but as far as I can tell based on discussions in IRC, we don't actually want it to be.
Created attachment 8537375
timeline-pref.patch
Comment on attachment 8537375
timeline-pref.patch

Review of attachment 8537375:
-----------------------------------------------------------------

I'm deferring to paul.
Context: The timeline will eventually be replaced by a new timeline tool end of Q1. Because it's a temporary panel, we don't want to confuse people and enable it by default now. But the tool is still useful as it is.

So I don't know.

Axel, what do you think?
It might actually be less confusing if we have both tabs enabled for a while during the transition because to the end user it will look like the end plan is to have a single tab that says "Timeline", and the existing "performance" tab gets deprecated/dissapears. 

In other words, even if the new timeline is a completely new tab, to the user, it will be as if the timeline just changes. We're going from "Only a performance tab" to "Only a timeline tab". So it makes sense to let both coexist for a while until we're able to absorb all the requisite functionality under the new timeline. We could even put in a "deprecated" message on the performance tab once we think the timeline is far along enough, and then let it disappear altogether.

The bigger issue we have is the developer menu. People might get used to go to the "performance" menu, and one day it's going to be gone with only a timeline menu left over. How will they know that's where they need to go?
(In reply to Axel Kratel from comment #4)
> It might actually be less confusing if we have both tabs enabled for a while
> during the transition because to the end user it will look like the end plan
> is to have a single tab that says "Timeline", and the existing "performance"
> tab gets deprecated/dissapears. 
> 
> In other words, even if the new timeline is a completely new tab, to the
> user, it will be as if the timeline just changes. We're going from "Only a
> performance tab" to "Only a timeline tab". So it makes sense to let both
> coexist for a while until we're able to absorb all the requisite
> functionality under the new timeline. We could even put in a "deprecated"
> message on the performance tab once we think the timeline is far along
> enough, and then let it disappear altogether.

Is the timeline in a far-enough-along state right now that we want to highlight it to users?  For instance, we've been avoiding announcing it on hacks posts and we don't have end user documentation about it.  From that perspective, turning it on by default is vouching for it's utility and stability while we haven't been willing to do it in those other ways.

(And purely as an advocate for the toolbox UI, I'd like to have a very high bar for enabling a panel by default, because of the extra space and noise each extra tool adds).
I agree with a high level of standard for enabling a panel by default, I was messing around with it and it looks like it might need a little more TLC before enabling it. I got stuck in "record" mode and couldn't turn it off or zoom in, but it might be related to the version of nightly I have.

But I would be in favor of having both panels coexist for a while by default rather than waiting until everything is perfect (provided the timeline is good enough to use). As for talking about it, we want to wait until we're down to a single timeline panel that incorporates all the features of both panels, until then we don't want to really draw attention to it. Not sure a lot of people would even notice if the extra panel shows up. I am suggesting that having both panels around during a transition phase might actually be ok. There is a great benefit to having features show up early even if they're not entirely baked because then we are likely to get more useful feedback early on.
(In reply to Axel Kratel from comment #6)
> I agree with a high level of standard for enabling a panel by default, I was
> messing around with it and it looks like it might need a little more TLC
> before enabling it. I got stuck in "record" mode and couldn't turn it off or
> zoom in, but it might be related to the version of nightly I have.
> 
> But I would be in favor of having both panels coexist for a while by default
> rather than waiting until everything is perfect (provided the timeline is
> good enough to use).

I'm not clear what you are suggesting here.  You said that it was totally broken when you tried to use it, but that it should be on by default provided that it's good enough to use.  Surely getting stuck and not displaying results isn't good enough to use.

Can you take a look on a Dev Edition build and see if it's good enough to turn on by default?  If so, we should WONTFIX this bug.  Otherwise I think we should turn it off by default until it's working.
Let's leave it pref'd on in nightly but pref'd off in dev edition. I got it working in nightly and in its current state it would require some demos and tutorials for folks to understand how to use it. Cool stuff, but since we don't want to draw attention to it until it's really ready for prime time, we can't do the demos. So pref off on dev edition is the best course of action. The memory graph is perhaps the one piece that's useful especially for mobile apps. But it needs more "meatiness". :)
I agree with Axel, generally, until the new, more detailed and useful panel lands it shouldn't be preffed on in Dev Edition. 

What would help here is a concrete example of how using the existing timeline solves a real problem for developers that they can't otherwise do.
Created attachment 8540953
timeline-pref.patch

Enabling the timeline in nightly instead of dev edition
https://tbpl.mozilla.org/?tree=Try&rev=22044cfecc62
https://hg.mozilla.org/integration/fx-team/rev/ef7a85fdb305
https://hg.mozilla.org/mozilla-central/rev/ef7a85fdb305
Sorry for the spam. Moving bugs to Firefox :: Developer Tools: Performance Tools (Profiler/Timeline).

dkl


Pref off timeline by default on developer edition



Bug 1112258 - Don't enable timeline panel by default on developer edition. r=vporof 