The patch for bug 168411 changed nsIBookmarksService on the 1.8 branch (and worse, without changing the IID).  In this case, you could leave the property and return an error if the getter is called.

The patch for bug 168411 changed nsIBookmarksService on the 1.8 branch (and worse, without changing the IID).  In this case, you could leave the property and return an error if the getter is called.
Created attachment 226664
rev0 - um, maybe?
driving, on behalf of jminta.
Comment on attachment 226664
rev0 - um, maybe?

r=sspitzer

I think we should add a comment to GetTransactionManager() to explain why it now returns NS_ERROR_NOT_IMPLEMENTED (and refer back to jminta's other bug), but that is just a personal preference.

for the trunk, we should either make the same change or update the uiid for this interface.

bryner, what do you think?
> for the trunk, we should either make the same change or update the uiid for
> this interface.

after coffee, I remembered that trunk is places and doesn't use this.  so I think we should apply the same fix to both (do a cross commit) and not update the uuid.


(In reply to comment #4)
> after coffee, I remembered that trunk is places and doesn't use this.  so I
> think we should apply the same fix to both (do a cross commit) and not update
> the uuid.

FYI: The patch was built against MOZILLA_1_8_BRANCH


Comment on attachment 226664
rev0 - um, maybe?

Agreed on both counts.  Add a comment on the branch, and remove the attribute on the trunk.  Thanks.
Created attachment 226792
patch for the branch
Created attachment 226793
patch for the trunk
Comment on attachment 226792
patch for the branch

carrying forward r=sspitzer, sr=bryner

seeking a= for the branch.
Comment on attachment 226793
patch for the trunk

seeking bryner's sr for this trunk patch.  brian suggests we keep jminta's change) but since the interface did change, use a new uuid.
thanks again to matt (lilmatt) willis for patch!
thanks for the review for the trunk patch, brian.  I've checked it in to the trunk.

as for the branch, I'm waiting for driver approval to check in that change.
Comment on attachment 226792
patch for the branch

a=darin on behalf of drivers (please land this on the MOZILLA_1_8_BRANCH and add the fixed1.8.1 keyword to this bug)
fix landed on the branch.  other patch already landed on the branch.  thanks again to bryner and lilmatt.


nsIBookmarksService.idl incorrectly modified on MOZILLA_1_8_BRANCH

fixed1.8.1