need a third state for tab scroll right / left:  enabled but not hovered

due to bug #352315, we need a third state for scroll right / left:  we
have disabled and we have hovered, but we need a third state to be used when
the scroll right /left buttons are enabled, but not hovered.  these images
should match with a non-hovered tab (from tomorrow's build.)

need a third state for tab scroll right / left:  enabled but not hovered

due to bug #352315, we need a third state for scroll right / left:  we
have disabled and we have hovered, but we need a third state to be used when
the scroll right /left buttons are enabled, but not hovered.  these images
should match with a non-hovered tab (from tomorrow's build.)
note, we do change the color of the "inner" arrow on hover, but not the background image of the scroll right / left.

we should based these images off of a background tab image (as of today, I just changed them.)

note, this is important for high-contrast mode so that you can see, on mouse over, that the scroll button will do something will clicked.
Created attachment 237968
tab-arrow-end-bkgnd-enabled.png
Created attachment 237969
tab-arrow-start-bkgnd-enabled.png
btw, I think tab-arrow-end-bkgnd.png / tab-arrow-start-bkgnd.png should be renamed to tab-arrow-end-bkgnd-hover.png / tab-arrow-start-bkgnd-hover.png
testing out dao's images now.

> btw, I think tab-arrow-end-bkgnd.png / tab-arrow-start-bkgnd.png should be
> renamed to tab-arrow-end-bkgnd-hover.png / tab-arrow-start-bkgnd-hover.png

I agree, and I've done that and it will be part of my patch.
Created attachment 238085
patch, uses new images from dao, renames images
Created attachment 238086
high contrast after fix (showing all three states)
Created attachment 238088
screen shot, ltr, non-high contrast
Comment on attachment 238085
patch, uses new images from dao, renames images

looks good!  thanks Dao and Seth!
fix landed on the branch.
Created attachment 238155
Left and Right Scroll Buttons have different color in disabled state

(In reply to comment #10)
> fix landed on the branch.
> 

See Screenshot.

Left and Right Scroll buttons look to be having different colors in 'disabled' state. While the right button resembles the new 'background tab' color, the left scroll button resembles the older 'background tab' color.
(In reply to comment #11)
> Left and Right Scroll buttons look to be having different colors in 'disabled'
> state.

This might be related to bug 352323, it's worth rechecking after that's fixed.


need a third state for tab scroll right / left:  enabled but not hovered

access, fixed1.8.1, sec508