[pinstripe] left, right, and all tabs buttons bleed 1 px into tabstrip

winstripe does not have this, as it has undergone a lot of cleanup over the past few days.

spun off from bug #348935

I'll make some screen shots.

[pinstripe] left, right, and all tabs buttons bleed 1 px into tabstrip

winstripe does not have this, as it has undergone a lot of cleanup over the past few days.

spun off from bug #348935

I'll make some screen shots.
Created attachment 238417
screen shot
on closer inspection, I see the following problems.

1) to the left of the scroll left button, there is a 1 px gap, and the button is not flush with the side of the window

2) on a related note, to the right of the scroll right button there is a 1 px gap, and the button is not flush with the all tabs button

3) the bottoms of the scroll left, scroll right, and all tabs "bleed" into the white strip.  the bottom of these button should look like the bottom of a background tab.

I'd like to fix all these issues before RC1.
Created attachment 238444
screen shot after the fix, remove the 1px slop
Created attachment 238445
patch
Comment on attachment 238445
patch

oy!  good catch, surprised no one else noticed this!
Created attachment 238463
screen shot of another nit
in my next patch, I'll include this fix for that new nit:

 .scrollbutton-rel-box > .scrollbutton-down > .toolbarbutton-icon {
   margin-top: 4px;
+  -moz-margin-start: 1px;
 }
 
> in my next patch, I'll include this fix for that new nit:

landed on the branch as part of bug #352518.

now on to the bleeding issue!
I would really, really like this to get in, but I'm actually not sure that it should block release, in a world where that means we hold the ship date. Seth, are you actively working on this right now?
> I would really, really like this to get in, but I'm actually not sure that it
> should block release, in a world where that means we hold the ship date. Seth,
> are you actively working on this right now?

I am working on it right now, yes.  (note, this bug covers three issues:  bleeding, gaps, and right scroll inner arrow off by 1px.  what's left is the bleeding issue)

I agree, it should not block the release or cause a slip.  We could ship with it, yes. 

I'm working on it as we speak, unless you have another bug you'd rather me work on.
Created attachment 238562
screen shot after the patch (no more bleeding!)
Created attachment 238564
patch for the 1px bleeding issue
fixed.

the three nits in this bug, and the nit from bug #348935, should help pinstripe look slightly better, especially to someone who stares it all day zoomed in!


[pinstripe] tabstrip nits:  left, right, and all tabs buttons bleed 1 px into tabstrip, 1px gap before scroll buttons, arrow in right scroll button off by 1px

fixed1.8.1