Build F1.

Choose "Refactor > Rename Element" while a type is selected and rename it. 
Resource Navigator reveals the source file for the type (workbench preference 
to link navigator selection to active editor is not selected).

Build F1.

Choose "Refactor > Rename Element" while a type is selected and rename it. 
Resource Navigator reveals the source file for the type (workbench preference 
to link navigator selection to active editor is not selected).
problem also occurs in packages view. The element is revealed but not selected.
It is serious when in single element mode.
Need to check whether fixing 17913 addresses this problem in the packages viwe. 
I still see this problem on F3, it seems like the fix to 17913 didn't affect
this bug. I can also see the same problem when I create a new type.
In 2.0 the new type is revealed and selected which is the intended behaviour. 
Is this what you expect as well. Please reopen if you disagree.
I don't find it useful to have the java source file revealed in a deep folder
hierarchy in Navigator every time I rename or create a type. I think JDT should
only worry about implementing this behavior, perhaps controlled by a preference,
in its own views. 

As far as I remember, the current implementation goes through all the views in
the current page that implement ISelectionTarget and reveals the new type. Maybe
behavior of this kind that applies to all of workbench should be left to
Platform UI, which may provide a more customizable way. 
Yes, this is correct. JDT/UI calls a method provided by the platform to reveal 
the element. The current behaviour of the JDT new wizards is homogeneous with 
the platform behaviour (creating a normal text file reveals the file in the 
navigator and the packages explorer).

Moving to platform to comment on reporters suggestions.
What exactly do you not like about the current reveal behavior?
Is it the fact that the renamed/new file is revealed in all viewers vs. just 
the current one. Or is it the reveal in general that you don't want?
I think it's a bug that we reveal in all viewers. We should only reveal in the 
current view.

Revealing only in the current view sounds better. This should go for all New
Wizards. Is this behavior centralized or is it implemented in all wizards
seperately?
The select and reveal behavior for new resources is implemented in 
BasicNewResourceWizard.
Changing tag to Wizards.
This behavior may have been introduced as a side effect of changing to one page 
per window. Previously, getting all views of the active page would have 
returned visible views only. Now it returns all views, including ones from 
inactive perspectives.
There are two separate problems here:
1. Select and reveal in all views (including the Navigator) when renaming a 
type in the packages view:
RefactoringSupportFactory.RenameSupport.selectAndReveal seems to do the same as 
BasicNewResourceWizard. It should only reveal in the current packages view.

2. Select and reveal in all views when creating a type:
The problem is in BasicNewResourceWizard. It should only reveal in the current 
view (no matter whether it's a packages view or the navigator).

Assigning to JDT to address problem 1 which is the original problem.
Opened bug 23131 for problem 2.
The fix would be to only reveal the element in the active part. But since 
creating a new element still reveals the element in all views we should stay 
consist here.

Postponing > 2.1
Does this mean you would consider fixing this bug if 23131 is also fixed (since that bug is for new resource creation behavior you are trying stay consistent with)? I don't have too much time on my hands but I since this behavior has been bugging me for the last six months I would be willing to work on a fix to 23131.
Yes and No. What I tried to say it that we need a homogeneous story, which 
might be revealing the item only in the active view on certain actions and in 
all views on other actions. 

I will see what we can do for 2.1, but I can't promise anything.

 
*** Bug 30253 has been marked as a duplicate of this bug. ***
Reopening...
We are now only revealing the element if the same element was previously 
selected in the viewer. So no unwanted reveal of the element in viewers will 
happen.

Fixed for build > I20030214


Renaming a type causes unwanted reveal in Resource Navigator [refactoring]



[18944] 