As a user, I can enable or disable EME playback support through a single preference item so that I can control whether Firefox can play back protected content using EME as I see fit.

As a user, I can enable or disable EME playback support through a single preference item so that I can control whether Firefox can play back protected content using EME as I see fit.
We already have media.eme.enabled which does this, at least on the Gecko side.
Is this intended to be the big-lever pref to disable EME (e.g. for those who object to DRM stuff?)

Sounds like the Add-on Manager will need to observe this pref to handle globally enabling/disabling CDMs (at a minimum for the UI around that), and to control installs/updates. Will Gecko itself need to do anything with this pref once the Addon Mananger is using it?
(In reply to Justin Dolske [:Dolske] from comment #2)
> Is this intended to be the big-lever pref to disable EME (e.g. for those who
> object to DRM stuff?)

Yes. This also makes the EME APIs not visible in WebIDL, and if this pref is not set Gecko's media stack won't play EME content; it reports a "corrupted content" error if it encounters encrypted content.

We could create another pref that just caused the EME APIs to fail, rather than disappear?

> Sounds like the Add-on Manager will need to observe this pref to handle
> globally enabling/disabling CDMs (at a minimum for the UI around that), and
> to control installs/updates. Will Gecko itself need to do anything with this
> pref once the Addon Mananger is using it?

We'll continue to check this pref when we open a media file, and report error if the pref isn't set when we encounter encrypted content.

There's also media.eme.adobe-access.enabled with disables the Adobe CDM only, but leaves any other EME JS APIs otherwise still working and visible, and any other CDMs we may have (like the ClearKey one we're required to bundle by the spec) will still continue to work.
Carried over from bug 1089879: instead of uninstalling individual CDMs, we can use this pref to uninstall all CDMs (as well as suppressing new installs/updates) for users who don't want DRM on their system.
(In reply to Justin Dolske [:Dolske] from comment #4)
> Carried over from bug 1089879: instead of uninstalling individual CDMs, we
> can use this pref to uninstall all CDMs (as well as suppressing new
> installs/updates) for users who don't want DRM on their system.

Bug 1089867 is handling this so unless that misses some cases, we should be good.


[EME] Add a preference to enable/disable playback of protected content

