1.x saved the "last charset" for bookmarks. I think this is important for some non-latin languages who visit pages that have misidentified charsets.

Currently, places does not import the last charset from bookmarks.html, it doesn't save it in the annotation service, and it doesn't use this value when you load a page.

This information needs to be store. With the annotation service, we can store last charset for all web pages you visit so that you can get the correct charset when you revisit them.

1.x saved the "last charset" for bookmarks. I think this is important for some non-latin languages who visit pages that have misidentified charsets.

Currently, places does not import the last charset from bookmarks.html, it doesn't save it in the annotation service, and it doesn't use this value when you load a page.

This information needs to be store. With the annotation service, we can store last charset for all web pages you visit so that you can get the correct charset when you revisit them.
I think this is three separate bugs: (1) Preserve character set on import and use it when loading the page; (2) Store current character set when bookmarking; (3) Update character set annotation for bookmark if you change the setting while viewing the page.
so is this fixed now by fixed depending bugs?
 (In reply to comment #2)
> so is this fixed now by fixed depending bugs?

from the requests i read here, yes, it is fixed, actually we should have parity with FX2 plus something more (forced charsets from menu are saved)
Bug 451915 - move Firefox/Places bugs to Firefox/Bookmarks and History. Remove all bugspam from this move by filtering for the string "places-to-b-and-h".

In Thunderbird 3.0b, you do that as follows:
Tools | Message Filters
Make sure the correct account is selected. Click "New"
Conditions: Body   contains   places-to-b-and-h
Change the action to "Delete Message".
Select "Manually Run" from the dropdown at the top.
Click OK.

Select the filter in the list, make sure "Inbox" is selected at the bottom, and click "Run Now". This should delete all the bugspam. You can then delete the filter.

Gerv


Tracking: ensure character set is handled correctly for bookmarks

