User-Agent:       Mozilla/5.0 (Windows; U; Windows NT 5.1; en-US; rv:1.8.1.6) Gecko/20070725 Firefox/2.0.0.6
Build Identifier: Mozilla/5.0 (Windows; U; Windows NT 5.1; en-US; rv:1.8.1.6) Gecko/20070725 Firefox/3.0

I want to sync the bookmarks from bookmarks.html to sqlite database 'places.sqlite' everytime firefox starts. Setting "browser.places.importBookmarksHTML" to true in pref.js or user.js or firefox.js is not importing the bookmarks to sqlite file from bookmarks.html. I even tried locking that setting through mozilla.cfg but no luck.

Reproducible: Always

Steps to Reproduce:
1.
2.
3.

User-Agent:       Mozilla/5.0 (Windows; U; Windows NT 5.1; en-US; rv:1.8.1.6) Gecko/20070725 Firefox/2.0.0.6
Build Identifier: Mozilla/5.0 (Windows; U; Windows NT 5.1; en-US; rv:1.8.1.6) Gecko/20070725 Firefox/3.0

I want to sync the bookmarks from bookmarks.html to sqlite database 'places.sqlite' everytime firefox starts. Setting "browser.places.importBookmarksHTML" to true in pref.js or user.js or firefox.js is not importing the bookmarks to sqlite file from bookmarks.html. I even tried locking that setting through mozilla.cfg but no luck.

Reproducible: Always

Steps to Reproduce:
1.
2.
3.
Please help!
try setting browser.bookmarks.restore_default_bookmarks
Please help!
my requirement is not to import bookmarks from default profile ("C:\Program Files\Mozilla Firefox\defaults\profile") but to import bookmarks from bookmarks.html to places.sqlite *everytime* firefox starts up.
so setting browser.places.importBookmarksHTML is ok but you should also remove the bookmarksBackup folder, if a json backup is available it will be restored instead of the bookmarks.html
so, is there no other we can make firefox import bookmarks from bookmarks.html instead of json backup when json backup is available?

Do you think deleting json file on every startup is safe though we have the updated bookkmarks in bookmarks.html?
As soon as the code finds a json backup it will restore it, because bookmarks.html is missing a bunch of stuff that instead is saved into json backup, for example tags and annotations are not saved to bookmarks.html, but maybe you don't need them. So instead you could provide a json backup saved with all the data you want. What are you trying to obtain? syncing as you ask will make a browser where users cannot add personal bookmarks (they will be overwritten at every startup) and will also cause slower startups.
> So instead you could provide a json backup saved
> with all the data you want. 

I didn't understand this point.


> What are you trying to obtain? syncing as you ask
> will make a browser where users cannot add personal bookmarks (they will be
> overwritten at every startup) and will also cause slower startups.

I want export bookmarks from places.sqlite to bookmarks.html on shutdown of firefox, and update bookmarks.html with the latest bookmarks. And by importing the bookamrks from bookmarks.html to places.sqlite on startup am getting all the user bookmarks along with the default setting which are copied by the script in places.sqlite.  By doing this am not enhancing my script to handle places.sqlite to copy the default bookmarks and still use bookmark.html to push default bookmarks to all users. hope its clear and no confusion.

on diffrent note, does deleting json backup files remove history or is it stored in places.sqlite?
(In reply to comment #8)
> > So instead you could provide a json backup saved
> > with all the data you want. 
> 
> I didn't understand this point.

i mean that json backup and bookmarks.html are mostly doing the same thing, the json backup contains all bookmarks plus tags and annotations, is a more complete version of bookmarks.html.

> hope its clear and no confusion.

So you want to export to bookmarks.html, then with an external script update it, so on reimport users will have their bookmarks plus a bunch of default ones added by your script.
i guess that an extension could download default bookmarks from a certain location in your network, and check that they exists or eventually create them if the're missing... That would probably work better than hacking on import/export.

> on diffrent note, does deleting json backup files remove history or is it
> stored in places.sqlite?

History is never backed up, sad but true, so it's only inside places.sqlite, json contains bookmarks, tags and annotations (on bookmarks).
are you referring to https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/14?id=14&vid=15&category=Bookmarks ? If yes, that isn't a feasible solution as we don't have any general purpose FTP/WEBDAV servers. Setting up those servers just for this is not a good option.

I think below is the last best option available now.
- set "Browser.bookmarks.autoExportHTML" to true to export bookmarks to bookmarks.html on shutdown
- set "Browser.places.importBookmarksHTML" to true and delete json back everytime firefox starts up to import default and user bookmarks to places.sqlite database.
- let the script take care of updating bookmarks.html if there are any changes to the default bookmarks.

It would have been great if the importing was done without deleting the json backup. I thought it shouldn't behave that way. Let me know if you have any other suggessions.

Thanks,
Prakash
this could be interesting for you: bug 462366
Marco, so it is a valid bug? If yes, can you please confirm?
yes
so after bug 462366 and bug 464767 will be fixed this should work as expected: set importBookmarksHTML to true to import from bookmarks.html, set restore_default_bookmarks to true to restore from default profile bookmarks.html.
Right now I'm deleting the json backup during every user logon using a script so that firefox import bookmarks from bookmarks.html on startup. I'm also setting the export.bookmarks option to TRUE to preserve user bookmarks in bookmarks.html.

>so after bug 462366 and bug 464767 will be fixed this should work as expected:

I'm assuming the behavior will be as below after the bug is fixed.

- If import.bookmarks is set to TRUE, firefox checks will import bookmarks from bookamrks.html to places.sqlite everytime firefox starts up (I dont have to delete json backup for this to happen).
- If import.bookmarks is set to FALSE, firefox will import boomarks from json back up everytime firefox starts up.

Also, how should I apply this bug fix for all machines? Do I have to upgrade to lastest version? I'm running Firefox 3.0.3.

Thanks,
Prakash
importBookmarksHTML set to true will import from bookmarks.html if it exists and then reset the pref to false.
restore from JSON will happen only if the database is corrupt

the fix will be in Firefox 3.1
fixed by dependancies
Bug 451915 - move Firefox/Places bugs to Firefox/Bookmarks and History. Remove all bugspam from this move by filtering for the string "places-to-b-and-h".

In Thunderbird 3.0b, you do that as follows:
Tools | Message Filters
Make sure the correct account is selected. Click "New"
Conditions: Body   contains   places-to-b-and-h
Change the action to "Delete Message".
Select "Manually Run" from the dropdown at the top.
Click OK.

Select the filter in the list, make sure "Inbox" is selected at the bottom, and click "Run Now". This should delete all the bugspam. You can then delete the filter.

Gerv


"browser.places.importBookmarksHTML" setting not importing the bookmarks from boomarks.html to places.sqlite

