User-Agent:       Mozilla/5.0 (Windows; U; Windows NT 5.1; en-GB; rv:1.9.0.4) Gecko/2008102920 Firefox/3.0.4
Build Identifier: Mozilla/5.0 (Windows; U; Windows NT 5.1; en-GB; rv:1.9.0.4) Gecko/2008102920 Firefox/3.0.4

I only just noticed a few weeks ago that there are some seemingly random bookmarks that are corrupt and cannot be deleted.  They also stop the folder they are in from being deleted.
This all happens when you are in Organise Bookmarks.


Reproducible: Couldn't Reproduce

Steps to Reproduce:
1. None as I don't know how it has happened.  I suspect it happened in the conversion from v2.xx to v3.00 but I don't really know.
2.
3.



See attached screen dump.  (can't attach - please let me know how to send you the screen dump.  I can also send the bookmark file for analysis)
You will see that the highlighted bookmark is not what shows at the bottom of the screen where you can amend it.
You can't delete it or it's folder.
It would be nice if you had a tool to rebuild the bookmarks so as I can see if it is on-going.  Obviously the corrupted ones will go forever, they are useless now anyway.

User-Agent:       Mozilla/5.0 (Windows; U; Windows NT 5.1; en-GB; rv:1.9.0.4) Gecko/2008102920 Firefox/3.0.4
Build Identifier: Mozilla/5.0 (Windows; U; Windows NT 5.1; en-GB; rv:1.9.0.4) Gecko/2008102920 Firefox/3.0.4

I only just noticed a few weeks ago that there are some seemingly random bookmarks that are corrupt and cannot be deleted.  They also stop the folder they are in from being deleted.
This all happens when you are in Organise Bookmarks.


Reproducible: Couldn't Reproduce

Steps to Reproduce:
1. None as I don't know how it has happened.  I suspect it happened in the conversion from v2.xx to v3.00 but I don't really know.
2.
3.



See attached screen dump.  (can't attach - please let me know how to send you the screen dump.  I can also send the bookmark file for analysis)
You will see that the highlighted bookmark is not what shows at the bottom of the screen where you can amend it.
You can't delete it or it's folder.
It would be nice if you had a tool to rebuild the bookmarks so as I can see if it is on-going.  Obviously the corrupted ones will go forever, they are useless now anyway.
i can confirm this.
(In reply to comment #0)
> It would be nice if you had a tool to rebuild the bookmarks so as I can see if
> it is on-going.  Obviously the corrupted ones will go forever, they are useless
> now anyway.

We will have some coherence check and cleanup in final 3.1 version
(In reply to comment #2)
> (In reply to comment #0)
> > It would be nice if you had a tool to rebuild the bookmarks so as I can see if
> > it is on-going.  Obviously the corrupted ones will go forever, they are useless
> > now anyway.
> 
> We will have some coherence check and cleanup in final 3.1 version

Hi Marco - when can we expect the final 3.1 version?

> See attached screen dump.  (can't attach - please let me know how to send you
> the screen dump.  I can also send the bookmark file for analysis)

yes, please send to dietrich@mozilla.com
3.1 will we out when its done, no specific release date however it is expected to come out around Febuary
Ciaran, Thanks, Allan
Hello there, I have the same problem. After cleaning personal data there are corrupt entries in the bookmark list. When sorting the list by name these entries seem to be deleted but appeare again after restarting firefox. The backupfile with these corrupt entries can't be processed by firefox.
confirming to investigate since we have multiple reports, hwv this will most likely get fixed by preventive maintenance and new JSON behaviour (skip bogus nodes)
Is this still valid? Anyone able to reproduce with a latest build?
I have not had any new occurrences that I am aware of.

How do we fix the problems caused from the old version?
I still can't delete the offending items.

Allan
Marco, the preventive maintenance enhancements haven't been landed on 1.9.0, right? So he should try to run Firefox 3.1 b3 to get those bogus items fixed?
no preventive won't land on 1.9.0, it could solve the issue on 1.9.1
Marco, How do I get Firefox 3.1 b3?  or is 1.9.1 imminent?
actually we are at 3.5 beta 4 (3.1 has been renamed to 3.5). it's pretty stable but it is up to you if you feel to use a beta product.
http://www.mozilla.com/firefox/all-beta.html
Marco, I have downloaded 3.5 beta 4 and installed.  How do I now cleanup the bad bookmarks and bad folders that won't delete?
usually it will happen transparently in the next days, but you can force the check, in the error console try running this code:
Components.utils.import("resource://gre/modules/PlacesDBUtils.jsm"); PlacesDBUtils.maintenanceOnIdle();
Marco;  I tried running the code, but there was an error - have to email you jpg as I can't capture the text.
Marco, Please ignore the last comment, I was using the wring version of FF.
I have run and there are no messages after 5 minutes.  I will now go and check if the probles have gone away.
Marco, Update - I have tested and all is fine - it removed the dud bookmarks and allows me to delete the bad folders that wouldn't previously delete.
When will this fix get to the released product?
When 3.5 will be released.

markin as fixed by bug 431558.

thanks for reporting back.
Marco,  Thanks for your prompt assistance. Allan
Given by comment 19 we can mark this bug as verified1.9.1. Thanks Allan.


Some Bookmarks and some folders have become corrupt and cannot be deleted

verified1.9.1