need to track down a contact and see what the status is?

maybe support@foxmarks.com ?

Rey, have anything better?

need to track down a contact and see what the status is?

maybe support@foxmarks.com ?

Rey, have anything better?
https://developer.mozilla.org/en/Updating_extensions_for_Firefox_3.1 has good info on areas to check or make changes to for compatibility with fx 3.1
Gaurav Oberoi gaurav@foxmarks.com 
Penny Campbell penny@foxmarks.com
updated to b3 so its tracking with the latest
any update on this? btw the add-on was renamed to x-marks
I'm using the updated version of FoxMarks, now called Xmarks, on Shiretoko nightlies as well as Fx 3.0.x & 3.5RC and it works perfectly. This is fixed.
So am I, but FoxMarks causes a weird issue when I use it. Gmail doesn't log in. I can enter my username and password, but the "Login" button simply doesn't do anything.
Sami, are you using Foxmarks or XMarks? The name is important as XMarks is what it goes by now and what is compatible with Fx 3.5. If you're using Foxmarks, that may be incompatible. Sorry to nitpick but I just need to narrow it down accordigly so I can help.
Nope using the newest Xmarks. No need to apologize I know it's all in the details. I actually disabled all the other extensions and just toggled that one. Whenever I enable it the Gmail login button doesn't work.
Thanks Sami. I've emailed Xmarks directly and requested they jump into this bug to determine what's going on.
Hi,

I've been in contact with Sami directly (via email) over the last few days and we've sent him a build to test/debug since we've had a hard time reproducing it inhouse.  In any regards, we'll have a fix soon!

Best Regards,

Will
Xmarks.com
Will Wagner from Xmarks emailed me a development release of their extension, but didn't have the chance to test it before RC3. RC3 actually resolved the issue.
Sami, if the issue is resolved in RC3, I'm going to close this issue out. If you see that it continues, please reopen the bug.


Foxmarks Bookmark Synchronizer addon not available/working for Firefox 3.5

