I'm not sure when it happened, but everything whose CSS has them positioned relative to the bottom of the page is no longer appearing in TabCandy (that's the reset and feedback buttons, as well as the dev menu, but I've hacked it to show at the top). They're attached to the body, and some quick testing seems to show that the body's height is a constant 0. 

Any thoughts on how this happened and/or how to fix it?

I'm not sure when it happened, but everything whose CSS has them positioned relative to the bottom of the page is no longer appearing in TabCandy (that's the reset and feedback buttons, as well as the dev menu, but I've hacked it to show at the top). They're attached to the body, and some quick testing seems to show that the body's height is a constant 0. 

Any thoughts on how this happened and/or how to fix it?
I'm in the process of fixing an issue with zIndex that seems like it might be related... zIndexes are screwed up right after startup, but seem to resolve themselves shortly thereafter. 

Is it possible the browser just isn't ready for us by the time we're starting? We hold off until sessionstore is available (actually we're using 'browser-delayed-startup-finished'), but maybe we need to wait a little longer?
I don't think that could be it, but I'm not sure. Have you tried waiting a bit via a setTimeout and then setting the zIndex? Or use Firebug to see where Firefox is displaying them?
Okay, timeout didn't make any difference. Firebug won't help, since we're not a real web page any more. 

Fixed it by attaching these objects to a new div and adjusting their z-index. Just adjusting z-index didn't do it; somehow in this new world the body element doesn't have the same dimensions as a 100% div inside of it. 

Commit: 

http://hg.mozilla.org/users/edward.lee_engineering.uiuc.edu/tabcandy-central/rev/cbeaeeaa042f
Mass moving all Tab Candy bugs from Mozilla Labs to Firefox::Tab Candy.  Filter the bugmail spam with "tabcandymassmove".


0 height body leaving feedback and reset buttons stranded?



+ Fixed: Bug 577164 - 0 height body leaving feedback and reset buttons stranded? 