Due to recent events with compromised/reused passwords, a few security-interested folks were chatting on IRC about ways to prevent password reuse, that don't require a user to install and add on etc.

One point of data that would be really useful in knowing how to prioritize focus and efforts on this is finding out what % of users save at least one password in the password manager. We would like to do this via telemetry.

A possible followup would be to determine how many users have set a master password.

Due to recent events with compromised/reused passwords, a few security-interested folks were chatting on IRC about ways to prevent password reuse, that don't require a user to install and add on etc.

One point of data that would be really useful in knowing how to prioritize focus and efforts on this is finding out what % of users save at least one password in the password manager. We would like to do this via telemetry.

A possible followup would be to determine how many users have set a master password.
Created attachment 658643
security and privacy prefs from about:config that are exposed in the UI
I asked Ilana from ur-team to measure the attached prefs in the next test pilot study. This isn't the same as telemetry data, though, since test pilot users are probably not representative of telemetry users.
I am not sure if this is already the case, but maybe we can expand the study to measure all security/privacy prefs, not just the ones exposed with a UI. There might be users who read a blogpost that said "hey, go into about:config and change this setting"

We can always filter the results to get back to this data, right?
Sure. I just checked the ones that were visible in the UI first since I think the other case is vanishingly small, and it's the first time I am asking ur-team for a favor ;) Unfortunately there's not a great naming convention for prefs. Some prefs don't have security or privacy in the name (like browser.formfill.enable) and there are about 100 prefs that have "security" in them, probably not all of them are interesting.
mmc: this is done and can be marked RESOLVED FIXED ? (or is a duplicate of another bug ?)
It's done, I am working on a writeup this week. The answer to the question is that in the heatmap 17 test pilot study, 11748 users participated, out of which 73% of users stored at least one password in the password manager. Of course that doesn't take into account who actually used the password manager with intent, rather than folks who somehow stored one by accident.
(In reply to Monica Chew from comment #6)
> It's done, I am working on a writeup this week. The answer to the question
> is that in the heatmap 17 test pilot study, 11748 users participated, out of
> which 73% of users stored at least one password in the password manager.

How was this measured? Do you have a link to the study code?


Collect telemetry data to determine what % of users use the password manager to save passwords

