20060406

From the RC1 action polish:
 [JDT]- remove key bindings from
	- "Inline..."
	- "Extract local var"
	- "convert local variable to field"

20060406

From the RC1 action polish:
 [JDT]- remove key bindings from
	- "Inline..."
	- "Extract local var"
	- "convert local variable to field"
OK to remove for convert local to field.

Not OK for Inline and Extract Local Variable. These keybindings have been available for years. I personally use both of them daily. It would be quite a severe regression to abandon them now.
As mentioned, I'm not the keybinding expert, that's why I haven't protested here. Erich?
Removed keybinding for 'Convert Local Variable To Field', left the others. 
I came here from bug#138358, and didn't understand what's the reason to remove 'Convert Local Variable To Field'.

Markus mentioned he uses "inline" and "extract local variable" daily, so this is the reason to "not ok" to remove them.

However, I personally use "convert local variable to field" daily, so I cannot see this a valid argument to remove it.

Please, reconsider bring back Alt+Shift+F keybinding.
We had to free some keybinding at the request of other applications. As a user you can always assign the key again, but I hope you understand that for the defaults we can only keep main features.  We found that "convert local variable to field" isn't used that often.
Agreed. Thanks for the explanation.
I am also missing the "Convert local var to field" shortcut. I used to use it on a daily basis a well. It is an integral part of my programming style. Please bring it back.
You can still configure it on the keys preference page. The change only affected the default settings.
I'm just curious: 

"We found that "convert local variable to field" isn't used that often."

How exactly did you found out that "Convert local variable to field" was not used that often? Was it part of some usability study or just consensus from a few Eclipse Java developers?  

Maybe it'd be interesting in the future to have a way to record shortcuts use statistics for a wide-range of users to identify more used/less used keybindings if the "keyspace" is getting limited.


[refactoring] remove keybindings



135269: [refactoring] remove keybindings 