When you go through the new Java Project wizard you are given the opportunity to change compiler compilance settings etc.  The wizard does not however make it very clearl that these settings are the global ones and not the ones for the project that you are creating.  When I went through this I thought "great, I'm making a new project and it is letting me set it all up" but that turned out not to be the case and I had to go an figure out what the old settings were.

Furhter, it is unclear what would happen if I chose a project specific JRE what scope the compilance setting changes would have.  That is, would I have a project-specific JRE but global compliance settings?

When you go through the new Java Project wizard you are given the opportunity to change compiler compilance settings etc.  The wizard does not however make it very clearl that these settings are the global ones and not the ones for the project that you are creating.  When I went through this I thought "great, I'm making a new project and it is letting me set it all up" but that turned out not to be the case and I had to go an figure out what the old settings were.

Furhter, it is unclear what would happen if I chose a project specific JRE what scope the compilance setting changes would have.  That is, would I have a project-specific JRE but global compliance settings?
Are you referring to the 3.1 version of the wizard?
In 3.2 we changed it to let you configure the JRE's instead. The link opens the workbench preference page (see title) so I'm not sure if there's much confusion here.
But yes, for project specific JRE's, we should also add a compliance input field: bug 130725.
Currently the compliance is guessed from the JRE you specified.


the 3.2 version.  You clikc on the JRE link and then you get a prefs dialog that is filtered down to show just the JRE and the compiler settings.  This leads one to believe that they are setting these prefs for the project that htey are creating.  Especially if you choose the option to have a project specific JRE
ok I see. it would be better to disable the link when on project specific JRE's.
Or set the prefs on the project rather than globally...

It might be good (if possilbe) to someone indicate to the user that they are manipulating the *global* preferences rather than the project preferences (if they use the default/workspace JRE)
M7 polish.

Not sure what the right solution for this one is. I'm going to change the link name from 'Configure JRE...' to 'Configure default...':

( ) 'Use default JRE'    'Configure default...'

I think this makes it clear enough that following the link will not change the project setting.

I will not disable the link.

Hint that it is not possible to show the project settings because the project does not yet exist.

> Furhter, it is unclear what would happen if I chose a project specific JRE
> what scope the compilance setting changes would have.  That is, would I 
> have a project-specific JRE but global compliance settings?

Yes, I totally agree. Either we add a CC combo :-( or maybe an info message like 'For the selected JRE (foobar_1.5) the compiler compliance level for the new project will be set to 1.5'


Created attachment 63498
fix
fixed > I20070410-1043


[build path] compliance settings for new Java projects are global



137114 [build path] compliance settings for new Java projects are global 