3.2.1 RC3

1. start to create a new Java project
2. select "Create project from existing source"
3. enter an valid path, e.g. "C:\brokenPath"
==> the wizard does disables the settings (good) and shows a strange message below them: "The specified external location already exists. ...."

Of course it does exists: I was asked to enter an existing location, wasn't I.

I think the blurb is to explain why the settings are disabled. It would be better to show this on top of the settings, e.g. "The settings below are disabled because they are inferred from the given project".

3.2.1 RC3

1. start to create a new Java project
2. select "Create project from existing source"
3. enter an valid path, e.g. "C:\brokenPath"
==> the wizard does disables the settings (good) and shows a strange message below them: "The specified external location already exists. ...."

Of course it does exists: I was asked to enter an existing location, wasn't I.

I think the blurb is to explain why the settings are disabled. It would be better to show this on top of the settings, e.g. "The settings below are disabled because they are inferred from the given project".
I think we should remove the 'already' in this sentence: 'The specified location is an existing directory. ...'
new project wizard polish
Created attachment 63715
fix
fixed > I20070410-1043
Tested in I20070503-1400: the shown string is still wrong (the suggestion from comment 1 would be closer to what I expect): it now shows: "The wizard will automatically configure the JRE and the project layout based on the specified existing source."

BUT: there is really no source in there: it is completely empty and hence "specified existing source" is just wrong.

I recommend to:
1. rename the radio item to "existing location" which reflects the facts
   and would be better alligned to the wizard description at the top:
"Create a Java project in the workspace or in an external location."

2. if the location does not exist but can be created:
"The wizard will create the project at the existing location."

3. if the location exists write:
"The wizard will try to configure the JRE and the project layout based on files found at the specified existing location. Otherwise default settings will be used."

Besides that there are lots of other strange bugs/messages when creating a project from source where the directory cannot be created. Under Linux for example an confusing dialog is shown and a log entry is written.
(In reply to comment #5)
> Tested in I20070503-1400: the shown string is still wrong (the suggestion from
> comment 1 would be closer to what I expect): it now shows: "The wizard will
> automatically configure the JRE and the project layout based on the specified
> existing source."
> 
> BUT: there is really no source in there: it is completely empty and hence
> "specified existing source" is just wrong.

Good point...
"The wizard will try to configure the JRE and the project layout based on files
found at the specified existing location."

> I recommend to:
> 1. rename the radio item to "existing location" which reflects the facts
>    and would be better alligned to the wizard description at the top:
> "Create a Java project in the workspace or in an external location."

I think we had the exact same discussion last year, and any year before. "existing location" is wrong too because you can also specify a non existing location... IMHO correct would be:
(.) Create new project in Workspace
( ) Create project in external location

But Erich wanted to have the focus on the fact that it is possible to create a new project _from existing source_, hence the wording.
> because you can also specify a non existing location... 
Sorry I meant "external location".

>But Erich wanted to have the focus on the fact that it is possible to create a
>new project _from existing source_, hence the wording.
I know that story.

So, you might add a third radio:
o create in workspace
o create at external location
o create from existing source

This would have the advantage that the option section doesn't change enablement while typing into the location field.
Created attachment 65908
Checks whether external project can be created
(In reply to comment #8)
> Created an attachment (id=65908) [details]
> Checks whether external project can be created
> 

ähh, wrong bug? See Bug 185527 
Didn't know about your bug and was just dropping my stuff here.


[build path] New Java project wizard: creating project from source shows strange message



155837 [build path] New Java project wizard: creating project from source shows strange message 