gmail.com

Bootstrap config for Thunderbird 2 
Bug 375111, add thunderbird files for update verification, r=rhelmer 
Bug 376878, work around duplicate all-l10n.js in thunderbird installers, r=rhelmer 
Bug 377099 - Remove 1.5 searchplugins on upgrade, r=thunder 
Bug 378723 Palm Sync extension built in SeaMonkey says installing into Thunderbird AB, and part of Bug 322628 Palm Sync build changes (use short path on installation if available). r/sr=bienvenu 
Bug 378723 Palm Sync extension built in SeaMonkey says installing into Thunderbird AB. Fix installation problem when attempting to use short path names. r/sr=bienvenu 
Bug 379240, add bootstrap.cfg for Thunderbird 1.5.0.12, r=rhelmer 
Win32 only - Bug 369221: Fails to install with xpicleanup error message. r=sspitzer, sr=mscott for Thunderbird 
bug 368206 - integrate breakpad exception handler/crash reporter on OS X.  fix up static linking for thunderbird et. al and enable breakpad by default on OS X.  r=bsmedberg 
Bug 281988 - Chrome registry supports for the xpcnativewrappers=yes flag. Chrome packaging fixup to apply the xpcnativewrappers=yes flag to our application chrome packages for ffox/tbird. This also stops the repackaging of thunderbird chrome. r=mscott+bz a=drivers 
Bug 373501: Add import/export of microsummaries to places. r=mano 

Bug 373501: Add import/export of microsummaries to places. r=mano Bug 379913: Add convenience methods to the microsummary service. r=myk 
Fix build bustage - don't build places import/export code except when MOZ_PLACES_BOOKMARKS are enabled. r=mano 
Bug 376253: Places bookmarks import/export unit tests + assorted fixes uncovered by the tests. r=mano, r=dietrich 
Bug 380999: Clear places bookmarks on initial import. r=dietrich 
Bug 380999: Disable import-to-folder tests, fix a few other minor issues in import/export code. r=dietrich 
Bug 381129: Do not write IDs for separators in exported bookmarks.html files. r=sspitzer 

Bug 381129: Do not write IDs for separators in exported bookmarks.html files. r=sspitzer Bug 380997: Don't set the places bookmarks toolbar favicon. r=sspitzer 

Bug 380997: Don't set the places bookmarks toolbar favicon. r=sspitzer Bug 381245: Add back the bookmarks toolbar icon to toggle the bookmarks sidebar. r=dietrich 
Bug 378585 Thunderbird/Composer/Sunbird shouldn't need to build in xpfe/components/bookmarks/public. r=mvl,benjamin,sr=mscott 
Firefox/Thunderbird shell code uses wrong attribute for help text - Bug 382115, r=gavin for browser/, r=mscott for mail/ 
Bug 383259 - Thunderbird's current trunk version is less than DOMi's minVerson for it, r=timeless, sr=neil 
Bug 334408: Import/export the last charset used to bookmarks.html. r=mano 
Bug 334408: Fix broken test. r=gavin 
Bug 384384. r=bsmedberg, r=mscott for Thunderbird 
Bug 380744, Thunderbird reports "unable to decrypt" on truncated decryptable messages
fix thunderbird bustage from bug 388663 
Bug 388103 (ostensibly): Config bumps for Thunderbird 2.0.0.5 update verification; this adds the 2.0.0.4 Tbird release, including the new ko locale (which was added betwen 2.0.0.0 and 2.0.0.4, so we can test the 2005 updates. 
Bug 376329, Thunderbird fails on certificate path with circular references
Bug 360134: Add GUIDs to items so they can be uniquely identified across profiles (for sync purposes). r=mano 
Bump the Thunderbird 2.0.0.6 candidates to RC2 to correct bug 389975. 
Fix Thunderbird/--disable-svg bustage from bug 379178.  rs=jwatt 
Bug 387710 - getAccessibleAt() is broken for tree tables effective 5th July trunk build of Thunderbird. r=aaronleventhal a=dsicore 
Bug 392213  nsINavBookmarksService.idl comments need clarification for extension developers (r=thunder) 
Better fix for the Seamokey, Thunderbird, and Calendar build breakage from landing of bug 392303 
Fixing thunderbird bustage. 
bug 386908 - remove xpfe/communicator from Thunderbird build, r=philringnalda, NPOTFFB 
Bug 379705 - Build movemail on Mac, just don't ship movemail.rdf with Mac Thunderbird, r=bsmedberg/mnyromyr 
Bug 392251 - Load extensions from appdir/distribution/bundles, try #2 to avoid Ts regression, r=thunder 
Bug 392967: Load app and extension prefs separately. r=bsmedberg 

Bug 392967: Load app and extension prefs separately. r=bsmedberg bug 391284 - crash reporter doesn't work for Thunderbird on Mac OS X.  r=campd 
Bug 374528  Provide backup and restore functionality for Places bookmarks (for thunder, r=dietrich, a=mconnor) 
Bug 395633: Fix incorrect month in backup dialog. r=sspitzer, a=mconnor for m8 
Bug 392501: Parse distribution.ini at startup. r=bsmedberg, a=mconnor 

Bug 392501: Parse distribution.ini at startup. r=bsmedberg, a=mconnor Bug 392771: Load distribution-specific search engines at startup. r=gavin, r=bsmedberg, a=beltzner 

Bug 392771: Load distribution-specific search engines at startup. r=gavin, r=bsmedberg, a=beltzner Revert incorrect patch 
Bug 392771: Load distribution-specific search engines at startup. r=gavin, r=bsmedberg, a=beltzner 

Bug 392771: Load distribution-specific search engines at startup. r=gavin, r=bsmedberg, a=beltzner bug 394190 - seamonkey/thunderbird not starting up due to manifest embedding issues.  change manifest embedding in the non-libxul case.  r=bsmedberg, a=bz 
bug 394190 - seamonkey/thunderbird not starting up due to manifest embedding issues.  change manifest embedding in the non-libxul case (follow up patch, forgot to address review comment).  r=bsmedberg, a=bz 
Bug 392496: New AUS update URL v3, send distribution information. r=sspitzer 

Bug 392496: New AUS update URL v3, send distribution information. r=sspitzer Bug 392501: Parse distribution.ini at startup. r=bsmedberg, a=mconnor 

Bug 392501: Parse distribution.ini at startup. r=bsmedberg, a=mconnor Bug 400310.  Deadlock when Thunderbird starts with Accessibility, or when Firefox starts after an auto-update, effective 2007-10-07. Patch by Ginn Chen, r=aaronlev, a=beltzner 
"Automated configuration bump, release for thunderbird 2.0.0.9rc1" 
"Automated configuration bump, release for thunderbird 2.0.0.9rc1" 
Bug 295235 - remove remaining contents.rdf chrome registration from Firefox and Thunderbird, r=mconnor a=asa 
Bug 293472 Remove unused images from classic.jar in Firefox and Thunderbird. p=sipaq <bugzilla@babylonsounds.com>, r=mconnor, a=asa 
Bug 250867 - icons only and other toolbar modes are not created in a global place. patch from Simon 'sipaq' Paquet <bugzilla@babylonsounds.com>, r=me, moa=mscott on the Thunderbird portions. 

fix for bug #360029:  remove places icon from personal toolbar. patch=dmills thanks to jminta and philringnalda for the help. r=sspitzer bug 393548 - Restart Thunderbird button is too small, text doesn't fit.  r=dcamp 
Bug 404630: Fix a crash when nsNavHistory::setAndLoadFaviconForPage() is called with no URI. r=sspitzer, a=mtschrep 
supplimental fix for bug #404630:  Faviconize Tab extension causes a crash @ nsNavHistory::LazyMessage::Init r=thunder, a=blocking-firefox3+ 
Bug 400151 - Thunderbird nightly update build id is cropped, r=sspitzer, a=beltzner 
"Automated configuration bump, release for thunderbird 1.5.0.14rc1" 
"Automated configuration bump, release for thunderbird 1.5.0.14rc1" 
"Automated configuration bump, release for thunderbird 1.5.0.14rc1" 
Bug 396930 - "giving focus to tree before its populated crashes Thunderbird [@ nsUInt32Array::GetAt]" (fix nsXULTreeitemAccessible::GetName()) [p=marco.zehe@googlemail.com (Marco Zehe) r=aaronlev a1.9=damons] 
Bug 411847: About box doesn't show distribution name and version. r=mano, a=mtschrep 
Bug 412025: package JSON xpt (Firefox & Thunderbird), r=sayrer/mscott, a=schrep 
Bug 405951. Thunderbird newsgroup/feed messages coming up blank in virtual buffer. Hoping null checks will fix. r=surkov, a=blocking1.9 
Bug 405951. Missing content in Thunderbird window. r=surkov, a=blocking1.9 
Bug 405951. Thunderbird: newsgroup/feed messages blank in virtual buffer, r=surkov, a=blocking1.9 
Bug 409591. Thunderbird: newsgroup/feed messages blank in virtual buffer. Correct the previous checkin for this bug which caused bug 414574. r=surkov, sr=bz, a=blocking1.9 
Bug 367799 - nsNavHistory duplicates "effective TLD" functionality. r=thunder, a=mconnor 
Bug 411847: Fix typo in about dialog js. a=beltzner 
Bug 367799 - nsNavHistory duplicates "effective TLD" functionality. r=thunder, a=mconnor 
"Automated configuration bump, release for thunderbird 2.0.0.12rc1" 
"Automated configuration bump, release for thunderbird 2.0.0.12rc1" 
"Automated configuration bump, release for thunderbird 2.0.0.12rc1" 
Bug 417329 - No longer creating accessibles for the Thunderbird Addressing Widget, effective January 22, 2008. r=ginn.chen a=mtschrep 
Bug 418812 - "Crash @ nsXULListitemAccessible::GetListAccessible() when hitting Reply from within a Thunderbird message" (add a NULL check) [p=marco.zehe@googlemail.com (Marco Zehe) r=surkov a1.9=beltzner] 
attempt to fix thunderbird bustage from bug 263381 - support --with-system-sqlite3 
bug 417249, bug 417578, bug 405951, bug 413778, bug 412878. Fix missing, incorrect or crashing doc load events in Firefox and Thunderbird. r=surkov, a=blocking1.9 
Bug 420254, thunderbird often uses ~10% cpu when idle, r=enn, sr=neil, a=beltzner 
Bug 421751: make nsIProcess.run() not open any console windows on Windows. r=dougt, sr=mconnor, a=damons 
Bug 421922 - Tree Tables in Thunderbird and Firefox broken since March 6, r=ginn.chen, blocking=mtschrep 
Additional checkin for bug 421922 - Tree Tables in Thunderbird and Firefox broken since March 6 patch by Evan Yan (evan.yan@sun.com) r=Alexander Surkov (surkov.alexander@gmail.com) a1.9=blocking 1.9+ by mtschrep 
Bug 424656 - Accessible information for Thunderbird message and Firefox bookmarks tree tables wrong r=surkov.alexander blocking1.9=mtschrep 
Bug 424656 - Accessible information for Thunderbird message and Firefox bookmarks tree tables wrong r=marco.zehe, surkov.alexander blocking1.9=mtschrep 
Bug 368091 - Toolkit's about:license needs to allow for different 'official binaries' line (make toolkit/content/license.html generic and let apps build a customized copy from it; app changes for Firefox here; others in follow-up bugs). r=bsmedberg, mpa=gavin on the browser bits, r=philor on the ugly line in Thunderbird until bug 428144 lands, a1.9=beltzner 
Backing out mardak's Bug 251337 checkin to fix Thunderbird & Sunbird tinderbox bustage. 
"Automated configuration bump, release for thunderbird 2.0.0.14rc1" 
"Automated configuration bump, release for thunderbird 2.0.0.14rc1" 
Bug 431124 xpcshell test test_bug_395092.js fails on Thunderbird. r=sdwilsh, test-only change 
Bug 431788, bootstrap config for Thunderbird 3.0a1, p=rtessner, r=me 
[OS/2] Bug 433220: fix Thunderbird build break on OS/2, r=mkaply 
Core parts of Bug 378991 - Enable IDN link support in messages for Thunderbird and only pass punycode values to external apps. r=masayuki,dmose,sr=biesi 
bug 441610 - Calling getAttributes() on a defunct object crashes Thunderbird, r=aaronlev 
Bug 441233 Missing focus events in Thunderbird account wizard dialog r=surkov.alexander 
(from) Bug 443837 - Get SeaMonkey/Thunderbird patches from cvs trunk into mozilla-central 
(from) Bug 443837 - Get SeaMonkey/Thunderbird patches from cvs trunk into mozilla-central 
(from) Bug 443837 - Get SeaMonkey/Thunderbird patches from cvs trunk into mozilla-central 
(from) Bug 443837 - Get SeaMonkey/Thunderbird patches from cvs trunk into mozilla-central 
(from) Bug 443837 - Get SeaMonkey/Thunderbird patches from cvs trunk into mozilla-central 
(from) Bug 443837 - Get SeaMonkey/Thunderbird patches from cvs trunk into mozilla-central 
Bug 442830 – modules/distribution.js: int and bool prefs are not set correctly. r=thunder/bsmedberg 
Bug 445503 crashes.xhtml incorrectly overrides the crash reporter data directory for Thunderbird. r=ted 
Bug 431130 xpcshell test test_nsIDownloadHistory.js fails on Thunderbird. r=sdwilsh 
Bug 440724 Folder tree couldn't open/close Thunderbird compiling with Sun Studio 12 x86, r=enndeakin sr=neil 
bug 436540 - BookmarksMenu items from distribution.ini do not get added to Bookmarks Menu, p=me, r=gavin+thunder 
(Thunderbird 7zSD.sfx) Bug 404609 - Update Thunderbird installer with changes made to the Firefox installer. r=standard8 
Bug 449371 Firefox/Thunderbird crashes at exit [@ gdk_display_x11_finalize], p=Brian.Lu at sun.com r=vladimir sr=roc 
Bug 438925: recognize data: hack as localized prefs in formatURLPref. r=gavin 

Bug 438925: recognize data: hack as localized prefs in formatURLPref. r=gavin Bug 450668: Add support for livemarks to distribution.ini. r=gavin 

Bug 450668: Add support for livemarks to distribution.ini. r=gavin Bug 449388: allow the customized-bokmarks-added preference to be changed (for compatibility with legacy deployments). r=gavin 

Bug 449388: allow the customized-bokmarks-added preference to be changed (for compatibility with legacy deployments). r=gavin merge upstream changes 
Sisyphus - build fixes - support Thunderbird 3, update data configurations, bug 453806 
bug 447999 - test_punycodeURIs.js fails on (SeaMonkey and Thunderbird) Mac 10.4 tinderbox, don't run test on 10.4, based on a comment by bz, r=ted 
Part of bug 360648 Thunderbird autocomplete migration, enable building of the toolkit autocomplete implementation for Thunderbird. Only affects Thunderbird. t=ted,dmose 
Bug 361401 - nsAppleFileDecoder assumes big-endian platform, effectively corrupts AppleDouble thunderbird mail attachments; r+sr=bzbarsky 
tag mozilla-central for Thunderbird 3_0b1 
tag mozilla-central for Thunderbird 3_0b1 
Bug 445788 - "distribution.ini fails to set the correct RSS Feed handler Order" (Load feed handler prefs after distro customizations) [r=gavin] 
cleaning up unused tags in the Thunderbird 3 Aplha 3 dry-run build 
Bug 335266 - If update of Thunderbird was paused, incorrect message is shown; r=robert.bugzilla 
Bug 461051 - "Thunderbird and Sunbird build failure with --enable-official_branding" [r=ted.mielczarek] 
Bug 465592 - To enable PGO on Thunderbird a module in the Mozilla core needs to have PGO disabled; r=ted.mielczarek 
Bug 459490 - Console error when checking for Sunbird or Thunderbird software updates 'Exception 0x80040154 (NS_ERROR_FACTORY_NOT_REGISTERED) [nsIDocShellHistory.useGlobalHistory] in browser.xml'. r=dtownsend 
Bug 290057 - Thunderbird should integrate with the Spotlight Search; Add Mac -file arg handling so Spotlight can open mail files from searches v7; r=(bienvenu + joshmoz) sr=benjamin 
Fix error running tests for bug 473417 on Thunderbird Mac tinderbox 
Bug 472269 LD_LIBRARY_PATH is not set when running thunderbird from mozilla/dist/bin on Solaris r=wtc sr=neil 
Bug 480079 - Move comm-central 7zSD.sfxes out of mozilla-central (Thunderbird, SeaMonkey, and Sunbird). r=philringnalda, r=mcsmurf, r=mschroeder 
Bug 457147 - Thunderbird/Lightning hangs playing sound when calendar contains a certain event; r+sr=roc 
Bug 469523 - Enable TUnit leak log in tinderbox (log); (Ev1) Support xpcshell built without leak logging; (Thunderbird bustage fix) 
Bug 468363 - Clicking on URL in autocomplete drop-down while search is running does not autocomplete URL, r=Neil, SeaMonkey/Thunderbird only 
Test cleanup - Bug 488797 - Custom GreD directory in xpcshell tests fails on Thunderbird 
Bug 379822 - Make view source character encoding menuitems work in Thunderbird by not reloading from history if history is disabled, r=gavin 
Backout revision 12536e9936b2 (bug 490879) because of unknown potential problems for Thunderbird 3.next 
Bug 431819, IMAP/POP/SMTP/LDAP with SSL client auth, Thunderbird repeatedly prompts for client certificate
Bug 493546 - "Enable building of toolkit/components/cookie for Thunderbird" [r=ted.mielczarek sr=dmose] 
Backed out changeset d546bd2c46a4 (bug 490085) because it's broken (and thunderbird's test caught it) 
Bug 500068 thundersomething addon constantly crashes tb 2.0.0.22 final (win32, winxp) [@ nsCharTraits<unsigned short>::length - nsPref::SetUnicharPref]
Bug 510377 Include satchel in Thunderbird builds. r=ted.mielczarek,sr=dmose 
Bug 511242 Include nsBrowserStatusFilter.cpp in Thunderbird's components list. r=Neil,ted.mielczarek sr=dmose 
Bug 516444 - Installation of Firefox Custom Builds without migration from a 2nd Browser is missing the Firefox default bookmarks, r=thunder 
Bustage fix for Thunderbird and SeaMonkey for skidmark for bug 524944 
fix for thunderbird bustage from Bug 474743. (need <stdio.h> in new xpcshell test for 'printf' usage) 
Bug 457777 - bookmark items in distribution.ini are not added if the item number has more than one digit, r=thunder 
Followup to bug 545080, convert additional functions to the explicit "W" variants so that even when we're not building with -DUNICODE we always use unicode paths, r=Thunderbird bustage 
Bug 393119 - XPConnect's Dump doesn't do string conversions correctly. r+sr=jst 
Bug 551277: followup bustage fix for ycbcr+layers build-order, in non-libxul builds. pending r?roc -- landing now to fix thunderbird bustage. a=dholbert 
Bug 518607 - Move the Troubleshooting Information page into toolkit so other apps like Thunderbird and SeaMonkey can use it, r=gavin 
Export CoreAnimation symbols for Thunderbird bustage fix. b=559259 r=Bas 
Bug 460443 - Thunderbird can't hande correctly multiline subject header that contains CR+HTAB instead of CR+SPC. r=biesi 
ThunderBird part of Bug 567191  - LOCAL_INCLUDES in layout/base should not be conditioned on MOZ_MEDIA. r=jst 
Bug 479334 - Firefox and Thunderbird need a better English language dictionary; r=gavin 
Bug 503428 Caret-moved events missing from Thunderbird Subject field r=surkov 
Bookmarks sync extension - initial import 
update from chris' work 
run xptgen from build script, use env vars from xptgen to get mozilla objdir/srcdir paths 
Return conflicts from sync engine; change bookmarks serialization to use a flat dictionary keyed by guid, instead of a deep structure. 
Sprinkle the awesome (we correctly create items in the correct place (index) now) 
Add more awesome.  Still some bugs, will try to replace sync-engine.js next (with a more domain-specific version) - beginnings of that already in the code (unused) 
flesh out new sync engine - cleanup needed 
woo! first sync across profiles works now 
nsIBookmarksSyncService.idl: add login methods, add comments. 
Yay, sync works again! 
Add xpt file, for the xpidl-deprived ;) 
Yield to main loop during reconciliation, so as to not block the UI.  Fix a broken check when changing the guid of an item. 
Other misc cleanup. 
Fix some nasty bugs with the way js generators were being used.  Have the snapshot [de]serialized to the profile 
unify logging routines, log via the component.  Log to a file.  Add a couple of crappy attempts at nicer logging output 
activity log fixes 
activity log fixes 
better log viewer performance thanks to chris; small bugfixes in the component; temporarily disable some very verbose logging output 
sync engine fixes; logging improvements; try to ensure that property keys are always strings 
keep a guid when the snapshot is first generated and uplaoded to the server, and propagate it to all clients.  this way we know if the server store gets completely wiped out 
rewrote network logic to be far cleaner and more correct.  Add initial support for a 'format version'. 
locking fixes (still commented out); better error checking; fail if the remote format version is higher than we can read; refactor generator code, bring back asyncRun() 
print http status codes on errors; improve xpath queries we use to get the dav lock tokens 
Note: server-side needs to be wiped, no migration code included. 
* Refactor login code somewhat. 
sync starred (but unfiled) items; fix autoconnect on browser startup; move all prefs under the same root (though we may need to move them all again later) 
Add 'log4moz', a log4net clone for Mozilla 
log the logger name; add a timestamp to logs 
additional logging; use __proto__ hack for inheriting object properties in subclassed Appenders 
tri-license log4moz 
calculate server deltas based on server latest -> final state diff.  fix some logger calls. 
logging fixes + make verbose logs more readable; fix guid rename commands when applying to objects; make stealLock work even when the resource isn't locked; remove extra tmp logging 
minor cleanup 
reset guids on initial sync; prune out commands with guids that already exist on the system 
fix guids reset method 
fix recursive function bug 
add resetLock() method to service interface, it resets any server-side locks there may be.  not hooked up to any ui. 
go go synchotron! 
various backendy fixes 
one more conflict detection fix 
add timer support, needs cbeard's new prefs 
listen to sync.enabled pref and enable/disable auto sync 
add resetServer, fix schedule pref 
add resetServer to idl 
new xpt from resetServer idl changes 
only run generatorDone if there's an onComplete handler 
hook up resetServer to UI 
branch merge 
accept only 200 and 404 as good return codes from a DELETE during resetServer(); release lock before calling doSync 
move account 'creation' into the service 
add a sync error event; make event names slightly more uniform; fix some resolver bugs 
fix logout/re-login 
merge 
baseURL -> userURL 
fix same-parent requirement for command likeness 
downgrade server changes error to a warning, it will be triggered often by changing indeces 
login/logout fixes; (dav obj) just return from login call right away if we're already logged in 
add lots more logging output to DAVCollection 
change all generators to expect to be closed by their onComplete handler; make sure they all do the bulk of their work within try blocks and always call the onComplete handler 
DAVCollection refactoring 
Fix for logout/re-login (no, really!) 
better check for whether we have a token; log event handler events 
Add reset client button to prefs window; add support for queries (e.g. the new 'Places' folder); display errors for all exceptions caught; reset server/client no longer trigger an atomatic re-sync 
don't die when livemarks don't have a site/feed uri set 
testing possible fix for deserializing feeds with empty site urls 
partial fix for deleting bookmark trees 
minor changes, version bump 
Tweak logging output; make detectUpdates asynchronous (makes the spinny much smoother); avoid setting timers in our service object; add missing piece to support query items; force cache verification when making requests (to avoid using stale data) 
don't sync/reset/login if already doing so; improve some http status code checks 
fix deepEquals to correctly compare non-objects 
support new services service (rework auth dance) 
add encryption library; add login dialog 
encryption support, woo\! 
add not-yet-working ui for the encryption prefs; add bookmarks count to the status file 
use btoa instead of external base64 library 
fix maxVersion; fix bookmark root names; get new bookmarks toolbar root 
sync -> weave in chrome URIs; fix broken bookmarks service attribute calls 
refactoring and cleanup 
more refactoring 
fix bug 406067; more refactoring; speed up reconciliation 
fix incorrect manifest line for locale; move idl files and xpt generation script to a public directory 
refactoring more stuff out of the service 
more refactoring: move bookmarks-specific code into an 'engine' object; get rid of sync xpcom component and replace it with Components.utils.import hotness 
refactoring: remove log4moz component, use it as a js module instead 
more and more refactoring: split weave module into multiple files (finally!) 
assume in loaded modules that the resource:// alias has already been added - remove all the templatey code to do that 
some more cleanup/refactoring; add history engine/core/store (history sync\!) 
login fixes; history sync fixes; make reset client actually delete all client data (useful for testing and for syncing down server data - e.g. the restore case) 
rename 'bookmarks' events to be weave events; add service-level events in addition to engine-specific ones (where appropriate) 
move logs and snapshots into a 'weave' directory in the profile; use .txt filenames for logs to (hopefully) fix content type problems some people are seeing 
ui / prefs fixes 
change prefs to live under extensions.weave 
implement firstrun/updated pages 
limit history sync to the last 500 items; load snapshots from the right directory in the profile 
process GUID changes *before* anything else 
version bump 
alert errors when the passphrase is empty 
version bump 
fix getTagsForURI call (API changed); bump version 
Bug 409673: Don't log the authentication header 
Fix typo in last commit; use asterisks in place of auth header 
Bug 409601: Ask for an email instead of a username (since Weave usernames are email addresses) 
Pull xxxtea code into modules/; fix passphrase bug in the login dialog 
remove debug statements 
Make {en,de}cryption asynchronous so as to not block the UI; fix 'xxxtea' typos (it's xxtea); fix auth header suppression 
move xxxtea.js -> xxtea.js (typo) 
Bug 409908: don't decrypt cleartext.  Also, fix broken checkStatus calls when resetting server data. 
bump version in constants.js 
load all modules directly from load-weave.js to get around bug 408412; fix uses of |let| not directly within a block 
bump version 
bump version 
Bug 411105: nsILoginInfo no longer accepts null values for usernameField/passwordField.  Send empty strings instead 
bump version 
remove obsolete xpcom component code 
add openssl support 
branch merge 
fix openssl binary path on windows 
create user directories when they don't exist - good for personal webdav servers 
put utility functions in an object to avoid namespace pollution 
clean up prefs; add logging prefs; check weave is enabled on scheduled sync 
move openssl() into crypto object so it can use the logger there.  up version 
flesh out openssl code; still needs more work 
use a scriptableinputstream to correctly read openssl output 
version bump 
fix openssl args mangling 
switch to nsIJSON for JSON parsing and output.  add a deepCopy function instead of using eval(uneval()).  make *sure* to read and write UTF-8 to files. bump version 
ignore broken local snapshots if they can't be parsed; trigger an initial sync instead 
don't sync bookmarks/history unless they have been enabled 
* Log files are now limited to 2MB (down from 5) 
version bump 
add a dav method for getting a list of server files/directories; delete all server data when private key isn't found (this will cause everyone's server data to get wiped, since no one has a key yet); fix a bug in checkStatus with specific status codes (as opposed to ranges) 
fix full (first) upload brokenness 
add missing async.js module 
workaround for services.m.c 500 error on some GET requests 
bump version 
  server. 
bookmarks sync core: always include type information when generating commands.  also, allow for properties to not be set when comparing commands for likeness. 
bump version 
split up/simplify login functions; add a global (server-wide) storage version; wipe server for storage version upgrades 
bookmarks syncCore: remove actions never qualify for 'likeness' 
bump version 
fix resetClient's locking.  change bookmarks wrap format to have hardcoded guids for the 3 roots (menu, toolbar, unfiled) rather than random ones. 
bump version; bump storage format version 
decrypt private rsa keys before decrypting data with it (rather than doing it in one step).  fix for windows openssl.exe 
bump version 
work with all exception objects, whether we can modify them or not 
lazy-load service 
make service.js the main entry point from chrome/content; make the service be lazy-loaded; make crypto be lazy-loaded 
add sharing ui+backend code (not working yet); make engines less chatty when applying commands 
improve async generator logging; don't call done() on StopIteration when we already have a timer set (it means the generator just 'bottomed out' after calling done()); make XHRs be synchronous (blocking) - temporarily; fix up sharing code (adding to the keyring) 
make applyCommands asynchronous 
fix typo 
make XHRs non-blocking again; change sharing dialog so sharing is done without closing the dialog (still lacks any feedback though) 
remove old '500 error' hack for services.m.c during mkcol; fix applyCommands to do async right & make a listener correctly 
tweak logging defaults; add a hidden pref to make the 'sync now' menu option visible again 
add a 'clear logs' button to the log window 
status label now has service status instead of username; service [un]lock observer notifications are gone; don't error when async methods don't call done() - consider them methods with no return value; don't require passing null into login() to cause the identity to look up the password in the pw mgr; make some wrapper 'method generators' to make lock handling and observer notification simpler 
add status notification to sharing dialog; fix async generators in the case where an async method is missing a yield (better error, continue execution in parent); add guts of demo sharing code to engine & store (for bookmarks, with some spillage) 
bump version 
fix 'clear logs' on windows 
ignore 'type' properties in edit commands; fix history sync 
fix the bookmarks likeness comparator (a.data undefined bug) 
show 'sync now' menuitem by default 
remove try/catch block in the reconciler; correctly fix parent guids of remove commands during guid changes; only allow guid changes for create commands 
use the wrapper notifier for login(), change observers to the slightly different observer topics; allow server url to not have a trailing slash (add one automatically); dial down dav.js verbosity; add serverWipe service method; change 'reset server data' button in prefs pane to do serverWipe instead of resetServer; allow for wrappers to have extra args both saved in the closure (at wrap creation time) as well as passed in later (via .async()) 
bump version 
bump storage format version to cause a server wipe 
[mostly] beat login dialog into submission; use DAV singleton instead of making a new DAVCollection in service.js; split up checks from login into their own functions, call them on sync(); check we are logged in before syncing 
add warnings to reset client/server data buttons in the prefs 
hide share bookmarks menu item; clean up ui init code 
fix tag sync 
bump version 
make login more robust, specially work around first-login oddities with services.m.c 
bump version 
don't fail on invalid server deltas which don't apply to the local snapshot; wipe the local snapshot instead 
rethrow exception when applyCommands fails 
rethrow exception when applyCommands fails; merge changes from jono 
  service.  Use the global id manager. 
add engine registration service; use global id service in service.js 
engines now get the pbe identity directly from the identity manager; engines now know their 'enabled' status (pref); main service syncs *all* registered (enabled) engines 
service: remove accidental 'resetServer' call in sync (\!); dav: lock a file called 'lock', instead of the entire collection (workaround for bug 421610) 
add a c++ crypto component, ported from bug 400742; with a specialized makefile to build in the extension (with the gecko sdk) 
add a simple unit test harness based on xpcshell; add two tests for PBE and to load all the modules; add some hacks to the component's makefile to make tests work correctly 
sync bookmark descriptions 
merge with jono's changes 
temporarily disable xmpp unit test 
windows build fixes for crypto component 
more windows (msvc) build fixes 
DAV: separate the root url of the DAV repository from the default prefix for all operations (i.e., the user's subdirectory) 
Bug 433762 – Sync stored passwords. r=thunder 
Sync form data: bug #434818, r=thunder 
Add support for engine 'scores'. Bug #434812, r=thunder 
Tracking support for HistoryEngine. Bug #435321, r=thunder 
Add tracking support to FormsEngine. Bug #435319, r=thunder 
fix build regression in windows from linux fixes 
don't require same index for folder 'likeness' 
whitespace police 
merge 
branch merge 
regenerate the engine id when the engine's pbe id changes 
don't attempt to get a symkey if encryption is set to 'none' 
continue sync of other engines even after one of them throws an exception; use constructor name instead of instanceof to check for array object in modules 
remove some debugging output, fix some remaining array detection code 
bump version constant 
Add and start using an object to represent a remote resource (file), and a server object to hold them.  Resources will attempt to retry network operations if they fail. 
make some async generator errors clearer 
format exception correctly when an engine throws during sync 
only require the .rc file on windows 
branch merge 
move json and crypto into remote resource 'filters', so the engine doesn't have to explicitly encode/decode anything.  note--known regression: filters will not use the encryption algorithm in the status file 
change remote store to keep track of identity names/aliases and fetch the objects from the id manager 
Bug 419121 - Weave chokes on microsummaries (r=thunder) 
log stack traces from sync exceptions 
Bug 436303: Fix misspelling 
create objects for the various server resources (these will later abstract away the actual resources); fix a bug where we were reversing the order of resource filters on every GET request 
merge upstream changes 
Fix linux builds (bug 433922, r=thunder) 
Make sync service check score before syncing: bug #434816 (r=thunder) 
* When wiping the server (due to a server version mismatch), skip .htaccess files, since they are usually not user-modifiable. 
merge upstream changes 
bug 434816: use a decreasing threshold algorithm for the periodic scheduled sync to make sure we eventually sync even small changes to data; r=thunder 
bug 430363: ignore remove commands when generating deltas for history so the deltas file on the server doesn't grow too large; r=thunder 
Make some 'debug' log calls into 'trace' ones.  Use the frame formatter, which will remove long paths to extension dirs from the output.  Don't warn about outstanding callbacks if we caught an exception from the generator. 
To avoid some async.js warnings: Turn some 'yield' calls into 'return' ones, and don't call 'self.cb' twice in a row when constructing event listeners for XHRs. 
Move remote init code ('fullUpload') into RemoteStore; make RemoteStore hold an Engine object (tightly coupling them); make the server prefix and identity properties of Engine public 
merge upstream changes 
merge upstream changes 
catch 404s from initSession and do an initial upload; fix some bugs (missing yields, references to Engine properties) in RemoteStore.initialize 
move more remote-interaction code into RemoteStore (and out of Engine) 
treat paths beginning with '/' as absolute 
merge upstream changes 
Don't allow re-entrance!  Fail to lock when we already hold a lock. 
make RemoteStore a but more Store-like (wrap, wipe methods); fix a missing yield 
merge upstream changes 
Store each delta as a separate file on the server 
Handle removeCommand in FormEngine correctly. (bug 441874, r=thunder) 
Remove runCmd and other openssl related stuff we no longer need. (bug 441898, r=thunder) 
Prevent multiple lock requests from being executed (bug 441922, r=thunder) 
Revalidated log for password sync test, which changed due to Thunder's changes that put deltas for individual versions into their own files on WebDAV. 
disable bookmarks sharing & xmpp for developer release 
return http status code from dav's checkLogin 
merge upstream changes 
check login status code in service's verifyLogin; attempt to create user directory when it's a 404 
fix comment in verifyLogin 
tone down tab engine debugging output a bit 
disabling password sync by default due to bug 438356 
merge upstream changes 
fix unit test makefile so it works on windows (no symlinks on windows, boo) 
when we abort a lock request because we already hold a token, reset _lockAllowed to allow further requests for locks 
don't even try to sync when the local lock is taken 
merge upstream changes 
bump version to 0.1.32, storage format version (global & engine) to 3 
merge upstream changes 
make log messages that print raw engine json be trace messages 
disable form sync by default 
General restructure for performance improvements (bug 441907, r=thunder) 
Make PasswordStore process removeCommands correctly (bug 442090, r=thunder) 
make resetguids async 
merge upstream changes 
fix cooe engine's resetGUIDs method by importing async module; don't call runInBatchMode in bookmark engine's resetGUIDs, it doesn't work atm 
bump version 
use this._lookup instead of command.data for remove commands 
import async module 
define _resetGUIDs in store 
import async module 
bump version 
merge upstream changes 
Primitive password tracking support (bug 435320, r=thunder) 
change AsyncException so it implements toString (which returns the original exception) 
style fixes, js warning fixes 
change onQuit dialog to wait for a running sync in order to start the last sync 
merge upstream changes 
update URLs to services.mozilla.com/ 
fix a missing yield, split up a couple of lines for clarity 
continue if there is an edit command for an item we don't have (just print a warning) 
fix cookie command logging; skip cookie commands for items we don't have 
merge upstream changes 
save username/pass in verifyLogin, at least for now 
merge upstream changes 
version bump (0.2.0) 
Bug 443385: unconditionally remove saved local token, regardless of whether the UNLOCK command succeeded; also cleans up some variable naming re: local locks in dav.js; cosmetic changes in wrap.js 
check that we have a local lock token before trying to delete it (or 'delete' will fail) 
merge upstream changes 
sigh, my previous unlock change actually breaks unlock.  fix fix fix. 
Bug 444119: catch errors during a lock and avoid a deadlock 
merge upstream changes 
keep track of errors during sync and throw after trying all engines 
Move KeyPair object (which caches keys) to a property of the service.  Clear it on logout 
remove 'waitOnQuit.enabled' pref, always wait for a running sync before quitting 
version bump to 0.2.1 
add WINNT-5.1 to makefile 
sync every 5 minutes (up from 1); start the score threshold at 75 (down from 100); decrement threshold by 25 each iteration (up from 5).  these changes guarantee even small changes will sync in no more than 15 minutes (down from 20) 
bump version to 0.2.2 
cosmetic cleanup to yield calls in the reconciler 
merge upstream changes 
move formatAsyncFrame to utils, don't print 'regular' stack trace when we have an async exception (it's not useful) 
beef up fault tolerance module and hook it up to the service 
login code refactoring 
add last exception to fault tolerance module 
merge upstream changes 
rethrow exceptions the fault tolerance module says are bad.  catch lock exceptions in the notify wrapper and don't rethrow them (hack) 
version bump to 0.2.3 
fix verifyPassphrase() 
fix sanity checks in getKeypair, cause key 404s to be interpreted as a success condition in verifyPassphrase, re-fetch keys after generating them in initialize 
version bump to 0.2.4 
Bug 442679: Add support for compiling on 64-bit linux systems.  Patch by Mark Wilkinson <mhw@kremvax.net> 
fix a strict warning when onComplete is null 
during version check don't attempt to wipe the server when the version file isn't found (that was a workaround for old clients, before the version file existed) 
allow deep copies of objects to optionally copy object properties in alphabetical order.  This is useful to guarantee the order in which they would be serialized as json (which may depend on the order in which properties are added) 
Bug 442931: Create a universal (x86/PPC) component on mac. Patch by Godwin Chan <godwinchan@hotmail.com>, with tweaks by me 
Bug 443489: Use nsICookie2 interface instead of nsICookie.  Patch by fabrice@bellet.info 
rollback last commit (1843a139184a), it causes cookie unit test to fail 
use just 'Darwin' for the platform dir on OSX.  'Darwin-gcc3' does not appear to work correctly 
check at startup if the crypto module appears to be working and alert the user if not 
time out requests after 30 seconds 
when changing passwords, do not allow the new one to be the same as the passphrase 
fixes to request timeout code 
version bump to 0.2.5 
Also adds a Thunderbird embedding of weave and a fix to set the
username/password during verifyPassphrase (bug 446444), r=thunder@mozilla.com. 
Fix network timeouts, make them take into account progress; re-upload new snapshot after 25 deltas 
merge upstream changes 
only wrap the first 10 entries in a tab 
when making deep copies of an object, default to alphabetically sorting the properties for adding 
merge upstream changes 
Default to not doing anything for resetGUIDs. Define an observer for subclasses to use 
split Engine into SyncEngine and FileEngine 
print exceptions that come from engines 
Implement FileEngine 
initial try to get crypto working with FileEngine 
get crypto working with FileEngine 
sync the *latest* 10 back-button entries per tab (not the earliest ones) 
Keychain's constructor doesn't need an identity anymore 
initial client data module from chris+me 
allow Resource.put to have no data arg (in which case it will use its internal _data property) 
mostly finish up ClientData impl 
Remote.put doesn't require the data arg anymore 
ClientData fixes; export to chrome as well 
some more ClientData fixes; *do* wipe the server when there is no version file; upload the version file when needed; refresh ClientData on login 
use client GUID (from ClientData) for FileEngine 
get tab sync halfway working again, with fileengine 
more tab sync fixes, only disposing is left to fix; also allow the notify wrapper to pass along an optional data payload 
fix snapshot typos in SyncEngine 
have RemoteStore inherit from Store 
do log some stack traces 
fix typo in utils deepCopy 
add a hack that supresses a strange error (this._remote.status.data is null, even though it was downloaded correctly) 
filter out invalid tags when applying edit commands 
merge upstream changes 
sync client data when client prefs change 
refresh clients on a timer when changed via the prefpane, otherwise just wait until next sync 
Asynchronous bookmark sharing (bug 449113, r=thunder) 
Client-side OAuth support (bug 444528, r=thunder) 
Syncing for Awesome bar (bug 437133, r=thunder) 
whitespace fix 
small fix in _fixParents; change reconcile to 1) not require a deepEquals to drop an incoming/outgoing command pair, merely a GUID match (we can do this because we know we'll drop server changes and use client ones, and because we know we'll actually do a fresh diff at the end to send commands to the server), and 2) check for creates of existing guids after the first pass (since we might find command pairs that go away and thus not hit that error) 
move some code from the engine to remote.js; rename FileEngine to BlobEngine (since it doesn't actually sync complete files); clean up SyncEngine's sync method 
merge upstream changes 
bump version to 0.2.6 
Bug 450396: password engine does not define a tracker 
catch exceptions from microsummaries that don't have a static title set 
Bug 450526: fix tag sync bug created by a typo in deepCopy.  Fix by Mishail <mishail.mishail@gmail.com> 
Add some logging helpers to log4moz, written by myk 
add platform-specific binaries so they don't need to be built when making a fresh checkout 
remove eula screen, replace it with shorter text on the intro page of the wizard 
Bug 443489: use the correct cookie xpcom interface 
disable bookmark sharing hooks 
disable sharing test 
bump version to 0.2.7 
fix terms link 
updates to resource class, use a new Auth service with pluggable 'authenticator' objects 
add base record types for the new weave server api 
remove dav.js (gone) and remote.js (resources now in resource.js) 
commit platform-dependent binaries so that it's easier to get started to hack on weave 
add prefs js module 
Update Observers js module to latest version 
add http js server for unit tests; add tests for resources, auth manager, base weave record types (WBOs, keys, crypto wrappers/crypto meta) 
log4moz api change: Log4Moz.Service is gone.  There is now a Log4Moz.repository which will auto-instantiate to a LoggerRepository (but can also be set if one wishes to use a different one).  Also includes some other minor changes, e.g. formatters are now optional (and default to a BasicFormatter if not provided) 
wizard eula screen changes 
add max retries config setting that resources support now 
makeUri: don't throw on invalid uris, return null instead 
remove server lock wrapper; change local lock to work with service.js local locking api 
remove lots of code that will not be needed with new server 
fix log4moz calls (new api), fix module imports for renamed modules 
hg merge 
use util module's stack formatter 
print exception in async stack traces, skip async frames in async stack traces 
url -> uri 
onException cleanup 
lots o' fixes 
small module to get an event at startup 
url -> uri 
add a temp NewEngine class that will talk to the 0.3 server 
remove some sharing code, derive from NewEngine 
say sync complete when it is! 
make sure records always have a data field that represents their state (e.g. for serialization); add some pki routines (createKeypair); add incoming/outgoing queue to NewEngine 
crypto changes: private keys get their own iv and salt, crypto meta records get a separate iv and no salt.  various fixes in crypto code and other wbo related objects.  fix crypto tests to match. 
cache crypto meta objects 
add resource logger pref; lower numretries to 2 
record import (cache) fix 
add rsa gen debug messages 
collection class 
add filter to wbo to set their id automatically based on uri 
remove unused fields, add half-baked impl to get password from ui 
attempt at fixing login/server setup, needs more work still 
make it so filters can be called (to e.g. manually copy resource data out 
more NewEngine impl 
work with NewEngine 
merge with upstream changes 
enable batch upload, yay! 
add tmp hack to work around server payload json decoding bug 
clean up sync function, get last timestamp properly from post result, save correct snapshot at the end, only attempt to post changes to server if there are any changes at all 
add some debug chatter 
fix bookmark deletion sync 
collection iterator is now async, it needs to run the new record's download filter 
server payload decoding problem is fixed, so remove hack.  we now always decode the payload after downloading. 
use the new modified property returned after a server POST 
query the bookmarks service to find out if we have an item (instead of our snapshot cache) 
sort incoming records by depth, so that folders are created before their containing items 
comment depth function for clarity, remove incorrect warning 
decrypt incoming items all in one go so as to sort them by index (which is inside the payload); don't attempt to change the index of an item if we're also changing its folder; only change index/parent if it's different from current value 
sync engines unconditionally on timer (for now, heuristic sync is broken somehow) 
add logic to detect when the same item is in both incoming & outgoing queues, but with different IDs - change the local ID in that case 
bump version to 0.2.90 
Bug 465974: fix firefox crash at startup due to weave using nss without initializing it 
fix 'logging in' debug string so it prints the actual username being used 
print http status, even for successful requests 
server api changes: encoding is gone (payload guaranteed to be utf-8 now), payload is guaranteed to be json so no need to wrap in an array to encode; change crypto object to place encrypted data in a 'cyphertext' property inside the payload, instead of replacing the payload 
remove incorrect getter/setter for cleartext - it should not be stored inside the payload! 
reset default key URLs whenever username is set via the service 
remove unused 'cleartext' payload property; add fixme comment to set a pref listener 
change chrome url for weave passwords in login manager to chrome://weave 
add debug for when setting password 
re-set password in login manager when setting username/realm 
bump version to 0.2.91 
some small key record fixes; avoid causing indirect login manager queries in the Identity constructor; fix wbo, keys, crypto record unit tests 
fix bookmarks tracker by removing yield calls (which of course don't work as callbacks for nsIBookmarksObserver) 
move non-working unit tests into subfolders so that 'make' works again.  the non-working tests will need some major re-writing due to the move away from webdav 
bug 467085 log4moz updateParents messed up, doesn't support multilevel parenting properly, r=thunder 
use callbacks instead of snapshot diffs to figure out what changes to send to the server 
merge upstream changes 
disable tracker for entire sync run.  make sure tracker is re-enabled at the end 
oops, always disable tracker during sync 
re-enable tracker in the first-sync case just to add all the guids; add some debugging messages; when reconciling throw out records which are identical on the client and server (even if we thought they had changed) 
parentGUID -> parentid 
clear changed IDs before adding all current ones in first-sync case; edit the ID list directly instead of enabling/disabling the tracker 
more/better logging; allow changed IDs list to be cleared even when tracker is disabled 
tracker now caches places id -> guid mappings, since otherwise it can't retrieve the correct guid on item removal (because the callback happens after the item is removed) 
bump version to 0.2.92 
remove sync cores, they are no longer used; remove sharing code from bookmarks (we can bring it back when we need it again, needs work); have the engine give hints to the store about when to wrap all items and cache them (to make subsequent calls to wrap one item fast); move serializeItem/getAllIDs into the store 
make changeItemID exclusively a store method 
enable history sync (not working yet) 
closer to history working 
don't stop applying changes when one fails to do so 
remove slightly misleading comment 
add applyImcoming to store base class 
closer to history somewhat working.  need to rethink approach because of performance problems 
merge upstream changes 
api change for stores, deal with records not 'commands' 
remove applyCommands from store; make itemExists not a 'private' method 
override _itemExists, itemExists (no _) checks for cached items, then calls that 
change itemExists to check for the cache, then call _itemExists, that way subclasses can override just that without having to care about the cache 
sync only the last 150 history items (pending some special sauce to sync high-scoring items); various sql fixes.  history is syncing now, though there are bugs here and there 
sync visit times and transition types for history 
typo fix 
fix some variable references to use a local var instead of a closure 
move startup code to happen after the UI comes up 
Bug 470208: Fix log4moz typo in FileAppender 
implement the awe (or tears) inducing places-style sql queries -- history sync works pretty well now 
change engine to process (download, reconcile, apply changes) incoming records one by one 
don't filter downloads on a PUT; fail permanently on http status 400-499, 501, 505 
fix typo in history sql queries, clarify valid sort order values for collections 
merge upstream changes 
register for the right event on firefox 
add a method to push a depth-only record into a collection 
add depth and sortindex getters, and a toString for nicer printing 
add a method to wrap a depth-only record (just depth and guid, nothing else) 
remove accidentally committed logging calls 
* Refactor bookmarks store to be a little cleaner and work directly with records instead of "commands". 
bump version to 0.2.93 
change serverURL to use 0.3 url schema 
Bug 471076: explicitly check login succeeded 
force GC, makes sync of many items possible on fennec 
remove commented-out code 
add some makefile magic for creating release & snapshot builds more easily 
print observer notifications to debug log 
half baked replace by title method 
really actually fix login errors this time 
switch to generating individual bookmark records directly from the places store, without using a cache (to improve memory performance); create objects for bookmark types; temporarily disable history sync 
make engine keep less records in memory by limiting the outgoing queue to a maximum of 100 records, and fetch the rest from the store each time 
add a generic cache class for storing records during reconciliation. cache has 100 item limit, and is cleared before and after reconciliation so the OS can reclaim memory after GC 
typo fix 
improve WBORecord's toString() 
limit json filter's debug output 
fix cache typo. remove wrapDepth, it will be replaces with a different method 
change pushDepthRecord to pushLiteral (takes an object instead of a resource; omits the resource upload filters step) 
add a _getWeaveParentIdForItem method; fix getAllIDs; add a createMetadataRecord method 
remove 'outgoing' record cache (generate outgoing records at send time); clear the store cache and force a GC after reconciliation; push depth+index (metadata) records after regular (full) records; simplify + better comment reconciliation function; fix low mem check 
fix/further simplify reconciliation 
fix tracker's onItemRemoved 
warn when trying to add an undefined guid to the tracker's changes list 
remove extra debug code 
consider sortindex when checking if a remote record is the same as a local one 
drop _isEqual debug statements to trace level 
extra debugging to catch getFolderIdForItem errors 
fix depth/index record generation 
update history engine to work again with latest engine changes, and re-enable history sync 
partially re-enable client data (guid,name,type) 
add clients sync (list of clients with names and types); make it simpler to create Engine subclasses; remove the 2nd 'authenticator' parameter for Resources; resetServer is now wipeServer; consider 0 an invalid place ID (fixes bug when calculating item depths); add a Svc global exported from utils.js where commonly used services can live 
fail recordLike if either record is null (deleted) 
catch undefined URIs in makeURI; use Svc global to cache IO service 
Bug 472480: catch errors when changing history item IDs 
correctly maintain linked list pointers in cache 
fix Cache 
set guid when creating history entries 
make sure we return false if veryfyLogin fails 
commit so hg will let me merge 
merge upstream changes 
skip part of reconciliation for incoming deleted records 
when an orphan bookmark is found, reparent it to the unfiled bookmarks folder 
merge upstream changes 
small getchildren/getsiblings cleanup 
ignore/unignore specific weave IDs instead of a blanket enable/disable of the tracker during sync. 
make tracker return true/false when adding a changed ID to indicate if it was a valid add or not; change bookmarks & history trackers to match; fix some problems in bookmarks tracker 
syncCores are gone 
disable unused engines; fix trackers trying to call enable which is gone now; improve bookmarks tracker logging 
add some extra log info to engine; have tracker ignore all changes when applying a change to prevent the tracker from generating new guids for new items before the store has a chance to set the right one 
Bug 468671: Don't synchronize livemarks. Based on patch by Jorge Alves <jag.alves@gmail.com> 
fix typo 
merge upstream changes 
fix url vs uri typo 
simpler reconciliation for history 
cast modified timestamp to an int if it's a string 
wrap microsummary creation code in try/catch; catch unknown items during onItemMoved (should not happen, but...) 
move Observers.js and Preferences.js into an ext/ directory, to make it clear they are externally-mantained libraries 
WBO toString will serialize 'payload', CryptoWrapper overrides that and will serialize 'cleartext' 
make it so clients list can be modified from any client, and so it doesn't upload client info on every sync; clients list no longer stores data (except the local client's guid) in the firefox prefs 
Bug 471076: make notify wrapper catch exceptions; don't use catchAll wrapper in service, and check return value of login/verifyLogin 
add more flexible descriptions for login errors 
Log exceptions caught by notify wrapper 
initialize wbo records' uri property correctly 
don't encrypt empty payloads 
only url-encode weave IDs when constructing a URL with them 
set record IDs inside the store; fix bookmarks tracker, it was ignoring change events (e.g., changed title and such) 
set record ID in history store when creating a record 
set record ID for bookmark deletes too 
merge upstream changes 
ignore all events when tracker.ignoreAll is true; ignore most bookmark annotations (except for the ones we sync) 
server returns a json object for user root now, modify checkLogin() accordingly 
merge upstream changes 
disable scheduled sync when login fails 
collection searches for records older than a certain date now use the 'older' parameter instead of 'modified', since the latter is ambiguous depending on the verb used 
add support for newer filter to collections 
use -fshort-wchar on x86_64 too (only exclude it form arm) 
put prefs branch into Svc.Prefs 
temporarily send the 'modified' header as well as 'newer' so we continue to support older servers 
don't set any username by default 
remove unused code; add multi-cluster support; use Svc.Prefs branch for prefs; move some code from the window overlay into onStartup (print weave version and user agent string); automatically disable weave if crypto module is not working 
multi-cluster support; use new 'newer' flag instead of 'modified' for collection searches 
merge upstream changes 
allow multi-cluster support to be turned off 
automatically try to detect if the server supports the multi-cluster call (hack hack hack) 
catch exceptions when trying to find out user's cluster 
oops fix syntax error 
add missing setter for the weave enabled pref 
ignore sync if weave is disabled 
Backed out changeset fbdf53ade028 (remove & ignore binaries) 
merge backout changeset 
remove sm-weave-proxy01 hack 
ldap chknode returns full url now 
add makeURL function (returns an nsIURL), and add Svc.Memory (for memory service) 
...chknode is returning a hostname again 
merge upstream changes 
resolve using the baseUri, it's cheaper that way 
notify wrapper doesn't eat exceptions; catchAll wrapper doesn't use the FT service 
add '-engine' to engine name in observer notifications 
use catchAll wrapper, remove wipeClient from the service 
remove old storage format constants, add min_server_format_version 
add a generic WBO record manager 
add version checking at startup using a global metadata record; wipe server on incompatible versions 
add a method for resetting the engine's lastSync pref 
reset engine lastSync prefs when wiping the server 
try/catch exceptions on Preferences.reset() 
make sure to only save the last sync timestamp as a number 
pass the cryptoMetaURL to the store's createRecord 
add a clearCache method to the record manager 
go back to storing the local client name and type as prefs.  also store a 'syncID' (gets reset upon a server wipe) 
make a more concerted attempt at doing a fresh start on various server conditions, such as missing keys, etc.  clear local caches (makes it so Fx doesn't need to be restarted after a server wipe).  set the lastsync pref here instead of having the window do it 
make lastsync pref an int; don't set it in sync.js 
Bug 479232: don't wipe tabs engine when it hasn't loaded 
don't load old crypto module 
upgrade to latest Observers.js version 
shorten engine logging pref names, set defaults for them 
random fixes, actually syncs client data now :) 
Add method call for removing an appender.  Patch by kixx 
use auth.services.mozilla.com as default server url 
Wrap.notify now takes the topic prefix as an argument, instead of requiring this._osPrefix to be set; use Observers.js in several places (sync.js, status.js, etc); some event topics have changed, beware; fix up status window, now prints some useful status as sync progresses 
fix 'last sync' date in weave menu 
use Gecko's version comparison API, don't clobber the server if the remote version > local client version 
fix bad logic when checking metadata record 
try/catch in FileAppender.remove(), sometimes that fails 
better logging about why the server is wiped when it does 
improve pref pane; clean up first tab and make 'create account' load the services homepage, also temporarily hide the change password form; move client name setting to clients tab 
add a "what's this?" link to the login box so users can find out what the encryption passphrase is 
reset lastSync pref before setting it, as some clients have mismatched types saved 
Bug 480271 - On first sign in, username is initialized with "undefined". r=thunder 
remove unused observer service getter 
track local client data changes so we can upload it as necessary 
Bug 480461: skip items that cannot be decrypted 
fix args list for observe() 
Switch away from __defineGetter__ due to bug 481104; explicitly cache logins in password engine; whitespace fixes 
add some trace-level debugging to reconciler; ignore old (changed) IDs while reconciling 
override _recordLike for passwords; add logging calls; make getAllIDs return full nsLoginInfos 
merge upstream changes 
create new records with correct guid set 
disable recordLike for clients 
don't fail when client metadata record doesn't exist, or has an empty payload.  Reset last sync after a werver wipe on all clients 
Bug 480457 - Expose a resetClient API for weave service and engines. r=thunder 
Bug 480490 - Expose a wipeServer API for weave service. r=thunder 
remove dump() debug statements 
Bug 482003 - Refactor _sync and _syncAsNeeded. r=thunder 
Bug 482007 - Refactor "should sync" and schedule sync logic. r=thunder 
Bug 482178 - Clean up services -> lazy services. r=thunder 
Bug 481345 - Weave should be disabled while offline or private browsing mode is active. r=thunder 
Bug 478327: Send minimal '[null]' payload for deleted records 
oops, client was not updating depth/index of records 
Bug 482513 - ClientRecord inherits from WBORecord, so it lacks cleartext. r=thunder 
Bug 482878 - service (_remoteSetup) needs to migrate payload formats. r=thunder 
Bug 481266 - Provide a way to perform actions on remote clients. r=thunder 
Bug 482792 - Provide a wipeClient, wipeRemote, resetService for weave service. r=thunder 
Bug 482793 - Process commands sent by remote clients. r=thunder 
Bug 468691 - Need UI for when something is wrong. r=thunder 
Bug 482903 - Wiping local passwords data prevents syncing. r=thunder 
inhibit caching, since we bypass the cache anyway 
Cache unwrapped symmetric keys 
remove accidental debugging spew 
merge upstream changes 
Bug 479341 - make WeaveCrypto::GenerateKeypair() call PK11_GenerateKeyPairWithOpFlags(). bacon=thunder 
Bug 484144 - Make sync status dialog not modal. r=thunder 
Bug 482898 - Allow an optional array of engines for wipeRemote, wipeServer, resetClient, etc.. r=thunder 
bug 476539: use a XULRunner-based test harness for unit testing; r=thunder 
Bug 482900 - Provide a friendlier UI to choose which ways to sync data. r=thunder 
Bug 483671 - Password engine isn't getting correct hostname. r=thunder 
Bug 484848: modifyLogin sends an array of nsILoginMetaInfos to observers 
make dialogs non-resizable, split lazy callbacks out 
add a setHeader() function so you can set some headers and leave others as they are; set merge to /false/ when setting headers on the channel; set content-type properly when uploading content 
add a tmp server url for account reg 
wizard revamp 
merge upstream changes 
Bug 481319: try again 
Bug 484848: try #3 
style police; split findCluster into two, findCluster (no side-effects) and setCluster (saves it); fix verifyLogin to work with any login, not just the saved one; add a createAccount call which creates an account on the server 
fix verify path + general polish 
fix missing yield in createAccount 
fix passphrase help link; remove some unused strings 
remove more unused strings 
shorten status messages 
remove dump() debugging from tabs engine 
Bug 478328: delete old history data from the server 
fix typo in prefs pane 
really fix pref pane typo 
dos->unix line endings 
Bug 486810 - Engines (and their trackers) are created with every new window. r=thunder
skip getting meta records for records already in the meta list 
don't track history deletes at all; don't built id->guid mapping hash for history tracker 
can't get guid on expiration 
Remove __proto__.__proto__ it's fail-prone 
oops fix missing .prototype 
Bug 484982 - Weave should support SeaMonkey. r=thunder, r=Mardak
default openid/authenticator to on 
bug 492435: work around crasher bug 492442 by not calling isVisited for a history entry without a URL; r=thunder 
Bug 493256 - Reconcile doesn't handle removed items correctly. r=thunder
Bug 493442: use app IDs instead of names to determine what engines to load 
Bug 486259: correctly convert log messages with non-ascii encodings. Patch by Igor Velkov <mozdiav@aeons.lv> 
initial about:weave impl (does nothing) 
about:weave changes, add jquery 
fix wbo record test, expand to use record manager as well 
make sure record id comes from the URI, only use the payload body in the collection GET case 
partially revert d6cac1e80da9 - use id from the body; add additional tests to catch more errors 
fix keys test to work with latest key structure + nsIChannel 
switch from autogenerated load-module tests to a single test that loads all modules 
Limit form history records (bug 494952, r=thunder) 
Bug 504387 - Cache keys after creating/PUTting them instead of after GETting. r=thunder
Bug 502293: Fix a string so that Weave will *actually* display error messages, instead of showing a percent sign. r=thunder 
Bug 481347: Split uploads into multiple chunks to get around server upload limit and curtail memory usage 
merge upstream changes 
Bug 485573 - Fennec runs out of memory and crashes if too many history items to sync. r=thunder
Bug 505906: Don't do a last POST if there is nothing left to send.  Regression from bug 481347. r=mardak 
Bug 504788 - Handle different weave versions by wiping, upgrading, updating. r=thunder
Bug 506795 - Handle adding duplicate logins. r=thunder
Bug 507296 - Sync bookmarks and history in batched mode. r=thunder
initial commit of new about:weave 
clean up weave events handling; add timed bubble after account creation; add status text below arrows 
merge upstream changes 
Always load about:weave, never the wizard; fix captcha to load in an iframe; fix password fields to be type text when the page is loaded (with the explanation text in them) 
Bug 511746 - Resource.foo shouldn't throw except in exceptional cases. r=thunder
Adds another pref for the "misc" api, makes base/misc url prefs default to auth.smc/{user,misc}/, fixes about:weave captcha path. r=Mardak 
Resolve lastChannel removal and 0.5 api changes. r=thunder 
Parse new 0.5 error codes. 
Land weave-0.5-api on weave. r=thunder. 
Bug 512637 - Use newlines instead of JSON collection for incremental parsing. r=thunder
about:weave polish: add localized help drawer & other small fixes 
remove 'GPrefs' from Svc, Preferences will do fine; don't make the username in the center status a link, since the whole area is a click target; open 'generic dialogs' for change password & passphrase 
Bug 512600 - Split rel/dev-track users on to separate servers. r=thunder
Bug 513191 - cloud -> client sync wipes auth cache, including weave credentials. r=thunder
Bug 514323 - Use info/collections to check if there's new data. r=thunder
Address review comments nits. r=thunder 
Merge weave-partial-view to weave. Bug 507429 - Partial sync download support. r=thunder 
initial patch 
Bug 516350 - about:weave round 3 initial landing 
Land about-weave on weave. Bug 516350 - about:weave round 3 followup fixes. r=thunder 
implement forgot password/passphrase dialogs 
Bug 518069: forgot password UI / bug 518067: directional sync dialog during setup 
Bug 574333 Include xpfe/components/directory in the list of things that Thunderbird builds. r=ted,sr=bienvenu,a=bsmedberg 
- Consistently use unicode to fix thunderbird/seamonkey builds
followup test only fix for SeaMonkey and Thunderbird for bug 583408. r=dtownsend, a=test bustage fix 
Bug 605138 follow-up: fix Thunderbird bustage. r=me a=bustage 
Fix Thunderbird bustage by calling MAKEINTRESOURCEW correctly, a=bustage 
Added tag THUNDERBIRD_3_3a1_BUILD1 for changeset da98fe199be0. CLOSED TREE 
Added tag THUNDERBIRD_3_3a1_RELEASE for changeset da98fe199be0. CLOSED TREE 
Set offline=false, if network manager init failed. Fixes xulrunner, and seamonkey+thunderbird test. Bug 616520, r=bz, a=bz 
Bug 619672 - Perma-Orange on Thunderbird Linux | TEST-UNEXPECTED-FAIL | test_redirectsMode.js followed by head_queries.js | 5 == 3; r+a=sdwilsh 
Bug 621715 - runxpcshelltests.py clobbers LD_LIBRARY_PATH; r=ted a=NPOTB/test code/GLIBCXX_3.4.9 bustage fix in xpcshell tests for Thunderbird builders. 
Added tag THUNDERBIRD_3_3a2_BUILD1 for changeset f24f049857a5. CLOSED TREE a=release 
Added tag THUNDERBIRD_3_3a2_RELEASE for changeset f24f049857a5. CLOSED TREE a=release 
Bug 622528 - Open RTF document in Thunderbird with OpenOffice is not correct Ascii mode; r=bzbarsky a=bsmedberg 
Added tag THUNDERBIRD_3_3a3_BUILD1 for changeset 290712e55ade. CLOSED TREE a=release 
Added tag THUNDERBIRD_3_3a3_RELEASE for changeset 290712e55ade. CLOSED TREE a=release 
Bug 642404 <autocomplete disablehistory="false"> displays incorrectly on Linux; switch SeaMonkey (and Thunderbird) to use enablehistory="true" instead r=Standard8
Bug 650254 - Permanent fail on update xpcshell tests for Thunderbird | TEST-UNEXPECTED-FAIL | test_0110_general.js and co failing in head_update.js. r=mossop 
Backout 1ad1fd67e97a, disabling jemalloc on mac (bug 414946), due to memory spike on 10.5 (bug 670492), crashes on 10.7 (bug 670175), and packaging error in Thunderbird (bug 670468). 
Bug 676499 - Mac 64 bit crash [@ fts3SegReaderNext] in Thunderbird's gloda tests following change to optimisation levels in sqlite - switch Mac back to -O2 optimisation for sqlite for now; r=glandium 
Bug 674352 - Precompile startup cache for Thunderbird; r=khuey 
Bug 538189 - Tweak conditions for enabling Synaptics scrolling hack to help Thunderbird. r=jmathies 
Bug 629253 - Firefox hangs when dragging two emails from Thunderbird over it. r=khuey 
Bug 681873 - Add basic Telemetry support to Thunderbird r=tglek 
Bug 716238 - ThunderbirdTry: "495794-1.html | load failed: timed out waiting for reftest-wait to be removed" - Ensure media.autoplay.enabled is always true. r=dbaron 
Bug 712363, Part 5: Add back synchronous cert validation for Thunderbird, r=honzab 
Bug 732908 - Expose 'Firefox' and 'Thunderbird' as the accessible app names -- even for pre-release versions, r=ginn 
Bug 749739 - New email sound notification file cannot contain spaces (Linux - Thunderbird 12). r=karlt 
Bug 754432 - Let Thunderbird have access to ContactService.jsm and ContactDB.jsm. r=fabrice. 
Bug 766269 - Thunderbird Permanent orange: TEST_UNEXPECTED_FAIL | test_0030_general.js. Correctly handle MOZ_APP_BASENAME and MOZ_APP_VENDOR being unset when determining the update location for unit tests on Windows. r=ehsan, test-only 
Bug 775670 - Build Thunderbird using clang. r=rail 
Bug 783899, notify the view for resize events before the webshellwindow, fixing thunderbird window size when maximized, r=jmathies 
Bug 676499 - Mac 64 bit crash [@ fts3SegReaderNext] in Thunderbird's gloda tests following change to optimisation levels in sqlite - switch Mac back to -O2 optimisation for sqlite for now; r=glandium 
Comment only fix for Bug 800307 - Update certificates are checked even if app.update.url.override is set in Thunderbird >= 10.0.7es. r=Mossop DONTBUILD since it is a comment only change 
Bug 801716 Thunderbird Permanent Orange: TEST-UNEXPECTED-FAIL | test_removeDataFromDomain.js | false == true - ensure places history is enabled when running the test. r=ehsan 
Bug 808379 - fix Assertion failure: isEmpty(), at ../../dist/include/mozilla/LinkedList.h:258 causing Thunderbird crash since landing of fix to bug 803688. r=jlebar
Bug 660083 - missing focus event when opening a message in Thunderbird, r=tbsaunde 
Bug 834000 - Removing passwords in Firefox/Thunderbird 18.* always randomly reorders list of passwords in password manager. r=MattN 
Bug 884319 - Add http.jsm to toolkit for usage by Thunderbird FileLink, Lightning and Instantbird. r=Mossop 
Bug 890037 - Remove extra space from the output of "thunderbird -version". r=bsmedberg 
Bug 813411 - [email/IMAP] port/import Thunderbird's IMAP and SMTP fake-servers. r=jrburke
Desc: Bug 813411 - [email/IMAP] port/import Thunderbird's IMAP and SMTP fake-servers. r=jrburke
DONTBUILD (was only ever used by SeaMonkey and Thunderbird) 
Bug 907338 - "Ci is undefined" error in printUtils.js - thunderbird's print preview doesn't show any preview. r=Mossop 
Bug 942402 - Add version test functions for Thunderbird. r=jimm 
Bug 959209 - Thunderbird should use toolkit autocomplete widget, not the XPFE one. r=neil 
Bug 1017883 - Unable to view saved passwords in Thunderbird32.0a1, since _INTL_API not enabled. r=glandium 
Bug 984194 Disable test_encoding.js for Thunderbird to avoid perma-orange, bug 1012917 will fix this fully. r=jduell 
Bug 1052389 - Thunderbird can't package with MOZ_PACKAGE_JSSHELL due to looking for dozip.py in the wrong location r=ted 
Bug 1018259 - Thunderbird should stop using SHA-1 when signing email messages, m-c Windows build adjustments. r=dkeeler 
  don't have handlers for -remote (although thunderbird and seamonkey do).
Bug 1104997 - Fix Thunderbird bustage from Bug 1091668. r=mshal 
Bug 1130488 - disable tests broken by bug 1114624 for thunderbird, until thunderbird can drop the legacy dl manager. r=paolo
Bug 1054308 - Add mozmill tests to the mozharness configurations for Thunderbird, r=ted 
Bug 1125956 - Hack around the broken assumptions of Thunderbird about the HTML copy encoder by disabling the plaintext encoding detection logic; r=roc 
Bug 1125963 - Part 1: Fix serialization of the pre-wrap elements that Thunderbird relies on; r=bzbarsky
Thunderbird uses (which means setting white-space: pre-wrap and width:
created by the Thunderbird mail code. 
Back out bug 1149127 because of Thunderbird insanity 
Bug 1154894 - Disable test_plugin_default_state.js so Thunderbird can ship with plugins disabled by default, r=bsmedberg 
Bug 1164658 - disable test_web_channel.js for thunderbird, as it requires weave which thunderbird doesn't have. r=markh
backout f600f0cd7bb3 (Bug 1170646) because of Thunderbird regressions with OSX, r=michal 
Bug 1214377 - Hack to solve Thunderbird's need to detect style pre-wrap. r=roc 
Bug 1221356 - Don't package mozharness for Thunderbird builds. r=gps 
Backed out changeset b3d28572da60 (bug 1214377) for breaking thunderbird builds a=backout 
Bug 1214377 - Hack to solve Thunderbird's need to detect style pre-wrap. r=roc a=me 
Was causing test failures for Thunderbird where cache2 isn't in use yet. 
Was causing test failures for Thunderbird where cache2 isn't in use yet. 
Bug 1214377 - Hack to solve Thunderbird's need to detect style pre-wrap. r=roc 
Bug 1214377 - Hack to solve Thunderbird's need to detect style pre-wrap. rs=ehsan on a CLOSED TREE 
