Localizations which *don't* translate help or DOMI come up with XML parsing
errors due to misregistered chrome in installer builds only. I'm not quite sure
why this doesn't show up in ZIP/tree builds, but we found a simple solution.

NOTE to EXTENSION AUTHORS: You will want to put similar arcs in your own
extension contents.rdf files to make sure that locales fall back correctly.

Localizations which *don't* translate help or DOMI come up with XML parsing
errors due to misregistered chrome in installer builds only. I'm not quite sure
why this doesn't show up in ZIP/tree builds, but we found a simple solution.

NOTE to EXTENSION AUTHORS: You will want to put similar arcs in your own
extension contents.rdf files to make sure that locales fall back correctly.
Created attachment 163139
Add chrome:name to the contents.rdf files
Comment on attachment 163139
Add chrome:name to the contents.rdf files

Yeah, good fix.

That NOTE TO LOCALIZERS had better make it to m.l10n, if not also some more
permanent documentation.  And a blog post, for good measure.
Fixed on branch, I'll commit this on trunk once the tree opens.
Shouldn't this bug be a dupe of bug 254728?
No. This bug has a nice tight diagnosis and fix, whereas that bug is meandering.
The fact is that this problem was reported before, and now a bug is opened
stating the same problem. In abstract, this is a dupe, and the fact that in the
last bug who opened it knows how to solve it, is just a "dirty" workaround,
regardless of why it hasn't been treated the same way before.
Oscar, bugs are not abstract entities, they are used for tracking problems and
patches. It doesn't matter where the dup is marked, except that this bug has the
patch and is well documented, while that bug has a lot of cruft. It wasn't clear
to me what the problem was in bug 254728, and I'm still not sure it's the same
problem, and I couldn't reproduce it because I didn't have the proper sources.
You are welcome to resolve it fixed/worksforme/whatever if it has actually been
resolved.
fixed


Localizations which don't translate help or DOMI display XML parsing errors.

fixed-aviary1.0