Can you do following modifications?

1. Add new insert point: "Last method".
2. Save selection of options in this dialog between generations.
3. Show checked items in check tree when dialog shown. Now it shows last items.

Can you do following modifications?

1. Add new insert point: "Last method".
2. Save selection of options in this dialog between generations.
3. Show checked items in check tree when dialog shown. Now it shows last items.
Martin,

please check with Randy.
makes sense to me
1. To insert at the last method, you can choose the last method in the list. 
Not good enough?
2. Good idea for the visibilities. Currently the 'create method comment' 
checkbox is selected based on the value set in the checkbox for "automatically 
add comments for new methods and types" at windows->preferences->code 
generation->code and comments.
3. If there are multiple checked items, for instance at the top and the bottom 
of the list, which would you prefer be shown... the top or the bottom?
1. No. I want generate getters/setters with minimal modifications. And I think,
that getters and setters are not so important as other methods, so I place them
near to end of class. Would be great if I can select "last method" and Eclipse
remember this selection. So, when I generate next time, I don't need expand
combo and look for last method.
2. Ok, about comment agree. Most importand is "last method".
3. First. I.e. top.
Created attachment 5199
proposed enhancements.

Support for items 1-3 added. Created a new interface so that the other source
actions can also remember the insert position if that's what we want to do.
Currently the selection for the insert position is only remembered if it was
first or last method. If you chose something other than first or last position,
the next time around, the argument selected is based on the cursor position in
the editor, or the selection from the outline.

+ Changed label to "Insertion point" per Erich's comment.
+ Inlined VisibilityControl.
released patch > 20030617


3.0 Generate getters and setters dialog [code manipulation]

