My first thought on this button a few weeks ago was that it was too skinny.  Now after using a version with this icon, I definitely agree that it is way too skinny...especially with the huge back/foward keyhole button and the stop and home buttons filling in their areas a lot more.  It just does not look "healthy" and does not fit in with the other buttons.

My first thought on this button a few weeks ago was that it was too skinny.  Now after using a version with this icon, I definitely agree that it is way too skinny...especially with the huge back/foward keyhole button and the stop and home buttons filling in their areas a lot more.  It just does not look "healthy" and does not fit in with the other buttons.
Created attachment 299795
Reload icon arrow similar to the back/forward arrow style

I think the fact that it has a different arrow end style helps to make it look skinnier. I am attaching a mockup with a quickly updated reload icon. All I did was fill the arrow head to try to match the solid end of the back and forward buttons.
Percy: the refresh arrow doesn't really need to have the same style as the back and forward ones, in my opinion, especially since the refresh icon has no button background behind it.
But adding a round button image behind the refresh arrow might not be a bad idea, actually, considering the refresh icon is the only icon that looks skinny next to the others... That's just a random idea (but then, it might look too similar to back and forward...). Or you could simply it thicker.

By the way, I also think that the white X of the stop button looks too "skinny", to the point it's almost hard to see...
A lot of people have been commenting on the difference in visual weight between the refresh icon and the other icons.  We don't want to give refresh and stop the same weight as back and forward, because this makes the browser feel very heavy (think mozilla 1.0).  So to address the current unbalanced look, we are going to make the stop button a lot lighter in the next iteration, going with a red X with the same line width as refresh.  This will hopefully make the browser feel lighter and in terms of usability give us an external consistency win by matching the same glyph used by the other two major browsers.

The overall plan is for refresh and stop to feel nestled between the mirrored forward and site buttons, see bug 414183 for details.
I'll consider this fixed now during one of the many icon drops.


The refresh button is way too skinny on windows

polish