Created attachment 340507
New Tab Button

The new "new tab" button is small and very easy to miss and hit close tab.

This has to be very frustrating to users, I've seen many who close a tab and don't know about "History > Undo Close Tab".

See attached image for the awkwardness.

Created attachment 340507
New Tab Button

The new "new tab" button is small and very easy to miss and hit close tab.

This has to be very frustrating to users, I've seen many who close a tab and don't know about "History > Undo Close Tab".

See attached image for the awkwardness.
This might be WONTFIX, but tossing to theme for now to see what Alex things of the spacing and placement.

FWIW, I don't agree with comment 0 - they're close together, but not so much so as to make it really damaging, and undo close tab not being discoverable is a different problem.
The new tab button isn't at danger of causing accidental tab closures any more than neighboring tabs could potentially cause accidental tab closures.
(In reply to comment #2)
> The new tab button isn't at danger of causing accidental tab closures any more
> than neighboring tabs could potentially cause accidental tab closures.

I don't understand that logic, the area to click on a neighboring tab is quite wide so it's easy to click away from close tab button. The area for the new tab button is very small and hence with enough tabs open you have to click right next to the close tab button.

Moreover, when enough tabs are open and the area becomes small so risk of clicking the close tab button becomes higher, the default behavior is to remove the close tab button for all but the active window, there must have been a reason for this!
>I don't understand that logic, the area to click on a neighboring tab is quite
>wide so it's easy to click away from close tab button. The area for the new tab
>button is very small and hence with enough tabs open you have to click right
>next to the close tab button.

Fair enough, I was thinking about padding between the elements as opposed to overall target size.  I commented quickly and I'm honestly working too many different issues at the moment, so yes, the statement I made in comment #2 is in fact totally wrong.

>when enough tabs are open and the area becomes small so risk of
>clicking the close tab button becomes higher, the default behavior is to remove
>the close tab button for all but the active window, there must have been a
>reason for this!

We removed the close button to reduce accidental tab closures, and also to increase the amount of text being displayed on each tab.  Here is a published study about the decision:

http://people.mozilla.com/~faaborg/files/20070509-CHI2007/p1783.pdf

I personally think that the new tab button should be placed to the right of the current tabs (since this is the correct natural mapping), but that we should try to mitigate the problem of misclicks in the following ways:

-Improve the amount of visual feedback on mouse hover so it is clearly which target is active
-Make the new tab button a wider target
-Improve the discoverability of recently closed tabs on the new tab page

Not having a new tab button out of fear of people occasionally closing tabs by accident would be a good example of us doing boundary case design.
Oh wow thanks, I agree with your ideas completely. But yeah, I tend to think in target size, the smaller the target size the larger the chance of clicking something close by. Just consider the back and the forward buttons, there's no padding between them but because of their large target area it's easier to aim for the middle, padding doesn't provide such ease of target positioning when clicking about a user interface.

I find it odd reading that study that the "new tab" button is positioned where it is, given in page 2, the final paragraph:

"It was hypothesized that users in the study were less
likely to discover the corner-X because of its distance
from the tabs (which were aligned at the left);"

Surely the who idea of putting the "new tab" button in the now default on tab bar is so that it is discoverable. There's clearly a lot of issues with the current implementation that can't be covered by 1 specific bug, so it's a bit hard to suggest a direct change in this bug.
FWIW almost every other browser vendor with tabbed browsing has the new tab button to the right of the last tab. Putting it all the way to the right is almost as problematic as the [x] button on the right which, from the study and from what was implemented in firefox, is not discoverable. If this is part of the intent of this bug, IMO, this should be a blocker...
(In reply to comment #6)
> FWIW almost every other browser vendor with tabbed browsing has the new tab
> button to the right of the last tab. Putting it all the way to the right is
> almost as problematic as the [x] button on the right which, from the study and
> from what was implemented in firefox, is not discoverable. If this is part of
> the intent of this bug, IMO, this should be a blocker...

Just made a bug on that because I couldn't fine one, bug 457651

Also see bug 457187
Fixed by bug 457651. The new tab button is now a) wider or b) between the tab scroll button and the all tabs button.
*** Bug 477191 has been marked as a duplicate of this bug. ***


New tab button too close to close tab button

