Opened Tab View for the fist time in that profile with nine tabs open, closed the intro video. What remained was an empty group and a group with one of my tabs. Pressing ESC brought me back to a single tab that wasn't visible in Tab View. Opening Tab View showed the group with the first tab again, and double-clicking that got me to that tab. I don't know how to access the other seven tabs. They aren't entirely gone: sessionstore.js still knows about them, but they're tagged with hidden:true.

Opened Tab View for the fist time in that profile with nine tabs open, closed the intro video. What remained was an empty group and a group with one of my tabs. Pressing ESC brought me back to a single tab that wasn't visible in Tab View. Opening Tab View showed the group with the first tab again, and double-clicking that got me to that tab. I don't know how to access the other seven tabs. They aren't entirely gone: sessionstore.js still knows about them, but they're tagged with hidden:true.
I got similar problems when using tab candy.
I had 150+ tabs open, and for some reason Tab Candy shows only 5 of them.
There is something very strange happening.
If I move some "group" in the tab candy, suddenly one lost tab pops up in the
right bottom corner. They come one by one, so I need to move a group, wait, move the tab to a group, move the group and wait again.
All of your tabs are there, they're just piled on top of each other in the lower right corner. This will be fixed in tonight's nightly (bug 574875). 

In the meantime, you can use "group sites" from the dev menu at the lower right of the Tab Candy screen.
(In reply to comment #3)
> All of your tabs are there, they're just piled on top of each other in the
> lower right corner.
No they aren't.


> In the meantime, you can use "group sites" from the dev menu
FYI, dev menu doesn't work here. I can see it, but it is deactivated or something.
Doesn't react to clicks.
Let's see what happens when we get the fix for bug 574875 in there.
Mass moving all Tab Candy bugs from Mozilla Labs to Firefox::Tab Candy.  Filter the bugmail spam with "tabcandymassmove".
Morphing ever-so-slightly: unless we can prove to ourselves that tabs will never get into the state described in comment 0 (where they are marked as hidden, and can't be remarked visible) then we'll need some "reset" button or function that users can employ, otherwise they'll be suffering dataloss.
This should be fixed by the patch in bug 586693, which landed on Trunk today.
If it's not fixed, should I file a new bug or re-open this one?

I still have the disappearing tabs problem every time I (accidentally; bug 591190) open Tab Candy. Using 4.0b7 on OS X 10.6.4, build ID: 20100919030805.

My "workaround" is to quit Firefox/Minefield entirely and restore the session.
If it is not fixed, please open a new bug and link to it from here. That way we can stick to one patch per bug.


Tabs disappear (marked hidden=true) and become entirely inaccessible - no way to restore / reset

dataloss