When we enter customization mode, we shouldn't reveal toolbars that are hidden when not in customization mode. When we do reveal them, we lead users towards placing toolbaritems in areas that won't be accessible without jumping through more hoops, which isn't a great story to tell.

When we enter customization mode, we shouldn't reveal toolbars that are hidden when not in customization mode. When we do reveal them, we lead users towards placing toolbaritems in areas that won't be accessible without jumping through more hoops, which isn't a great story to tell.
Jared: can you give me an example of a toolbar that shows in customization mode when it's actually hidden? For me that sure works.

Or do you mean that we want to hide toolbars that can not be used for customization?
(In reply to Mike de Boer [:mikedeboer] from comment #1)
> Jared: can you give me an example of a toolbar that shows in customization
> mode when it's actually hidden? For me that sure works.

Sure! Here's some STR:

1. Right click on the navigation toolbar and make sure that the Bookmarks Toolbar is unchecked. If it *is* checked, then uncheck it so it is hidden.
2. Now enter Customization.
3. The Bookmarks Toolbar should not become visible.
For posterity, I also can't reproduce this bug on UX. I must have filed it when looking at the standard Nightly builds. Maybe this has been fixed for a long time? Either way, glad that this got fixed (and especially that no new work was needed! :D )
In fact the find bar still appears in customization mode. That shouldn't be the case since it's not customizable.
This behaviour appears to have reverted. I think this is due to bug 865926 where we started putting the customizing attribute back on customizable toolbars when in customize mode.

Mike - are you still OK to work on this?
Scheduling for milestone 6 since we don't want these weird toolbars appearing for the folks doing our user tests.
Created attachment 756563
Toolbars: stay hidden!

This does the job, but I'm not entirely sure if this is the correct fix; I might be missing some edge case.
Comment on attachment 756563
Toolbars: stay hidden!

Review of attachment 756563:
-----------------------------------------------------------------

Yep, this should be all that's needed. Thanks!
Pushed: http://hg.mozilla.org/projects/ux/rev/477008613e97
https://hg.mozilla.org/mozilla-central/rev/477008613e97


Don't show toolbars in customization mode that are collapsed when not in customization mode



Bug 866928: Don't show toolbars in customization mode that are collapsed when not in customization mode, r=mconley 