Build 2.1.M1.

I get a nice message at the top of the Project/Properties/Java Build Path when 
I have missing entries on my HD from what I have specified on the class 
path: "Class path entries are missing." 

BUT the dialog provides no feedback as to which ones are missing, which can be 
a burden to figure out if you have a long class path in the list.

I would like to suggest having the list entry displayed in RED when a class 
path entry is missing. That would make it easy to spot. Red is pretty universal 
for "something is wrong" or "stop".

Thank you for considering this request,
Gary

Build 2.1.M1.

I get a nice message at the top of the Project/Properties/Java Build Path when 
I have missing entries on my HD from what I have specified on the class 
path: "Class path entries are missing." 

BUT the dialog provides no feedback as to which ones are missing, which can be 
a burden to figure out if you have a long class path in the list.

I would like to suggest having the list entry displayed in RED when a class 
path entry is missing. That would make it easy to spot. Red is pretty universal 
for "something is wrong" or "stop".

Thank you for considering this request,
Gary
asking Martin for comment
The icons of missing entries are already rendered specially (empty image)
The idea of adding an error icon adornment is better.
Now I notice the disabled type of icon for a class path entry that is not 
valid. I was running at a 1200x1600 so the difference with the all-is-well icon 
was not that obvious. 

An error icon is a step better.
Coloring the text in red on top of that is the best solution IMHO.

Does SWT support coloring an individual list box entry (a la Swing list cell 
renderer)?
You can have colored table items, but you have to extend the TableViewer to do 
that (must set the color directly on the widget).

I'll investigate if ww should do this in the build path UI.
Thanks for the idea!
fixed > 20021014

Inage now contains a 'warning' image (It's only a warning, not an error)
Where do I follow the discussion thread RE SWT and making the text red (or not) 
now that this bug has been resolved?

Thank you.
Do you ask this as a developper, how to color table entries? I haven't 
experimented myself with that, but the search view (org.eclipse.search) does it 
(gray entries mark 'possible' results). Have a look there, or post the question 
to the newsgroup.

>Do you ask this as a developper, how to color table entries?
I ask this not as an eclipse developer but as user who would like to track the 
issue.
Do you mean for the build path dialog? There's no plan yet to use colors to 
signal error states. I hope the given fix (warning adornments on missing 
elements) solved the problem.
Its definity a good idea, which I will keep in mind, but as a said, no 
immediate plans to implement.




Better UI feedback when class path entries are missing [icons]



24421 Better UI feedback when class path entries are missing [icons] 