If you rc on your project and select properties and then java build path, select
the library tab and then click add variable and then new.  Now try enter a valid
name and valid path and click ok.  You now see this variable in the list but you
can not click ok again.  The only option is cancel which then doesn't save your
new variable.  

The other pathway to this functionality works.  You go to window preferences,
properties, java, classpath variables and enter the variable.  This way the
variable does get saved.

If you rc on your project and select properties and then java build path, select
the library tab and then click add variable and then new.  Now try enter a valid
name and valid path and click ok.  You now see this variable in the list but you
can not click ok again.  The only option is cancel which then doesn't save your
new variable.  

The other pathway to this functionality works.  You go to window preferences,
properties, java, classpath variables and enter the variable.  This way the
variable does get saved.
The reason for the strange behaviour is that we mix a selection dialog (select 
variable classpath entry) with the possibility to configure variables.

I think we fix this by changing the behaviour that 'new' and 'edit' are applied 
instantly. The 'remove' button will be removed (too dangerous if you can't 
cancel)

btw, currently, to make you changes effective, select a valid variable 
classpath and press ok. if your variable points to a folder, you must 
press 'extention' first.
hmm

that workaround also doesn't seem to work

i have there 5 classpath vars
3 of the JRE itself and 2 that are tomcat_home and home that points to 
c:\eclipse

but what every i do there OK and EXTEND are never enabled.
i can create new but Folder Or directly a jar but that can't be saved
anyway.

For me that dialog is completely useless at the moment, i can't even select a 
previous one and extend it.

I am experiencing the same problem. The dialog NEVER allows you to click "OK" so
I am unable to associate any classpath variable to my project.
I did another paas over the dialog. As this is a selection dialog, the edit 
functions ('New', 'Edit', 'remove') have been replaced by an 'edit' that opens 
the classpath variable preference page.

The problem you are seeing with the Ok button never enabled should be solved 
now too.
>20030218


New Variable Classpath Entry impossible to save



31738 & 24678 